website/integrations/services/harbor/index.md, before:

---
title: Integrate with Harbor
sidebar_label: Harbor
---

# Integrate with Harbor

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Harbor

> Harbor is an open source container image registry that secures images with role-based access control, scans images for vulnerabilities, and signs images as trusted. A CNCF Graduated project, Harbor delivers compliance, performance, and interoperability to help you consistently and securely manage images across cloud native compute platforms like Kubernetes and Docker.
>
> -- https://goharbor.io

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `harbor.company` is the FQDN of the Harbor installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

Create an OAuth2/OpenID provider with the following parameters:

- Client Type: `Confidential`
- Redirect URIs: `https://harbor.company/c/oidc/callback`
- Scopes: OpenID, Email and Profile
- Signing Key: Select any available key

Note the Client ID and Client Secret values. Create an application, using the provider you've created above.

## Harbor

![](./harbor.png)

Commit message:

website/integrations-all: add default values change warning (#12777)
* website/integrations-all: add default values change warning

* website/integrations-all: update message

* Update website/integrations/services/gitea/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/gitea/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/pgadmin/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/hashicorp-cloud/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/hashicorp-vault/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/oracle-cloud/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/hashicorp-vault/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/pgadmin/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/proxmox-ve/index.md

Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>

* Update website/integrations/services/zammad/index.md

Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>

* Update website/integrations/services/writefreely/index.md

Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>

---------

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>
Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>
Co-authored-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

website/integrations/services/harbor/index.md, after:

---
title: Integrate with Harbor
sidebar_label: Harbor
---

# Integrate with Harbor

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Harbor

> Harbor is an open source container image registry that secures images with role-based access control, scans images for vulnerabilities, and signs images as trusted. A CNCF Graduated project, Harbor delivers compliance, performance, and interoperability to help you consistently and securely manage images across cloud native compute platforms like Kubernetes and Docker.
>
> -- https://goharbor.io

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `harbor.company` is the FQDN of the Harbor installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that you need to change from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

Create an OAuth2/OpenID provider with the following parameters:

- Client Type: `Confidential`
- Redirect URIs: `https://harbor.company/c/oidc/callback`
- Scopes: OpenID, Email and Profile
- Signing Key: Select any available key

Note the Client ID and Client Secret values. Create an application, using the provider you've created above.

## Harbor

![](./harbor.png)
