website/docs/sys-mgmt/brands.md, before:

---
title: Brands
slug: /brands
---

As an authentik admin, you can customize your instance's appearance and behavior using brands. While a single authentik instance supports only one brand per domain, you can apply a separate brand to each domain.

For an overview of branding and other customization options in authentik refer to [Customize your instance](../customize/index.md).

## Create or edit a brand

To create or edit a brand, follow these steps:

1. Log in as an administrator, open the authentik Admin interface, and navigate to **System** > **Brands**.

2. Click **Create** to add a new brand, or click the **Edit** icon next to an existing brand to modify it.

3. Define the configurations in the following settings:

### Branding settings

The brand settings define the visual identity of the brand, including:

- **Branding title**: Displayed in the browser tab (document title) and throughout the UI;
- **Logo**: Appears in the sidebar/header;
- **Favicon**: Shown on the browser tab.

:::info
Starting with authentik 2024.6.2, the placeholder `%(theme)s` can be used in the logo configuration option, which will be replaced with the active theme.
:::

### External user settings

You can configure authentik to redirect external users to a default application after they log in (if they weren't originally redirected from a specific application). To do this:

1. Open the authentik Admin interface and navigate to **System** > **Brands**.
2. Click the **Edit** icon for the relevant brand.
3. Under **External user settings** select a **Default application**.

### Default flows

You can explicitly select, in your instance's Brand settings, the _default flows_ to use for the current brand. You can optionally configure these default flows ([learn more about each default flow](../add-secure-apps/flows-stages/flow/examples/default_flows.md)):

- **Authentication** flow: the flow used to authenticate users. If left empty, the first applicable flow sorted by the slug is used.
- **Invalidation flow**: for typical use cases, select the `default-invalidation-flow` (Logout) flow. This flow logs the user out of authentik when the application session ends (user logs out of the app).
- **Recovery flow**: if set, the user can access an option to recover their login credentials.
- **Unenrollment flow**: if set, users are able to unenroll themselves using this flow. If no flow is set, option is not shown.
- **User settings flow**: if set, users are able to configure details of their profile.
- **Device code flow**: if set, the OAuth Device Code profile can be used, and the selected flow will be used to enter the code.

If a default flow is _not_ set in the brand, then authentik selects any flow that:

    - matches the required designation
    - comes first sorted by slug
    - is allowed by policies

This means that if you want to select a default flow based on policy, you can leave the brand default empty.

## Other global settings

Under **Other global settings** you can specify an exact web certificate.

Commit message:

website/docs: update outdated custom CSS docs (#14441)
Signed-off-by: Jens Langhammer <jens@goauthentik.io>

website/docs/sys-mgmt/brands.md, after:

---
title: Brands
slug: /brands
---

As an authentik admin, you can customize your instance's appearance and behavior using brands. While a single authentik instance supports only one brand per domain, you can apply a separate brand to each domain.

For an overview of branding and other customization options in authentik refer to [Customize your instance](../customize/index.md).

## Create or edit a brand

To create or edit a brand, follow these steps:

1. Log in as an administrator, open the authentik Admin interface, and navigate to **System** > **Brands**.

2. Click **Create** to add a new brand, or click the **Edit** icon next to an existing brand to modify it.

3. Define the configurations in the following settings:

### Branding settings

The brand settings define the visual identity of the brand, including:

- **Branding title**: Displayed in the browser tab (document title) and throughout the UI;
- **Logo**: Appears in the sidebar/header;

    :::info
    Starting with authentik 2024.6.2, the placeholder `%(theme)s` can be used in the logo configuration option, which will be replaced with the active theme.
    :::

- **Favicon**: Shown on the browser tab.
- **Default flow background** :ak-version[2025.4]: Default background image for the flow executor, can be overridden per flow, see [Flow configuration options](../add-secure-apps/flows-stages/flow/index.md#flow-configuration-options).
- **Custom CSS** :ak-version[2025.4]: Add custom CSS to further customize the look of authentik. Creating such a file is outside the scope of this document.

### External user settings

You can configure authentik to redirect external users to a default application after they log in (if they weren't originally redirected from a specific application). To do this:

1. Open the authentik Admin interface and navigate to **System** > **Brands**.
2. Click the **Edit** icon for the relevant brand.
3. Under **External user settings** select a **Default application**.

### Default flows

You can explicitly select, in your instance's Brand settings, the _default flows_ to use for the current brand. You can optionally configure these default flows ([learn more about each default flow](../add-secure-apps/flows-stages/flow/examples/default_flows.md)):

- **Authentication** flow: the flow used to authenticate users. If left empty, the first applicable flow sorted by the slug is used.
- **Invalidation flow**: for typical use cases, select the `default-invalidation-flow` (Logout) flow. This flow logs the user out of authentik when the application session ends (user logs out of the app).
- **Recovery flow**: if set, the user can access an option to recover their login credentials.
- **Unenrollment flow**: if set, users are able to unenroll themselves using this flow. If no flow is set, option is not shown.
- **User settings flow**: if set, users are able to configure details of their profile.
- **Device code flow**: if set, the OAuth Device Code profile can be used, and the selected flow will be used to enter the code.

If a default flow is _not_ set in the brand, then authentik selects any flow that:

    - matches the required designation
    - comes first sorted by slug
    - is allowed by policies

This means that if you want to select a default flow based on policy, you can leave the brand default empty.

## Other global settings

Under **Other global settings** you can specify an exact web certificate.
