website/integrations/services/meshcentral/index.md, before:

---
title: Integrate with MeshCentral
sidebar_label: MeshCentral
---

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is MeshCentral

> MeshCentral is a free, open source, web-based platform for remote device management.
>
> -- https://meshcentral.com

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `meshcentral.company` is the FQDN of the MeshCentral installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

## authentik configuration

Create an OAuth2/OpenID provider with the following parameters:

- Client Type: `Confidential`
- Redirect URIs: `https://meshcentral.company/auth-oidc-callback`
- Scopes: OpenID, Email and Profile
- Signing Key: Select any available key

Note the Client ID and Client Secret values.

Next, create an application, using the provider you've created above.

## MeshCentral configuration

Edit the `config.json` file for your MeshCentral deployment, and add the following code in the `domains:` subsection:

:::info  
For Docker deployments, the `config.json` should be located in the directory on the host machine you mapped to `/opt/meshcentral/meshcentral-data`.
:::

:::info
If you need to enable advanced OIDC configurations, please refer to the [Using the OpenID Connect Strategy](https://ylianst.github.io/MeshCentral/meshcentral/openidConnectStrategy/) section in the MeshCentral documentation for detailed instructions.
:::

```json
    "domains": {
            "authStrategies": {
                "oidc": {
                    "issuer": "https://authentik.company/application/o/meshcentral/",
                    "clientid": "<Client ID>",
                    "clientsecret": "<Client Secret>",
                    "newAccounts": true
                }
            },
```

To ensure everything is setup correctly, restart your MeshCentral instance and visit the main page. You should be greeted with a new button to allow signing in with OIDC.

Commit message:

website/integrations-all: add default values change warning

website/integrations/services/meshcentral/index.md, after:

---
title: Integrate with MeshCentral
sidebar_label: MeshCentral
---

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is MeshCentral

> MeshCentral is a free, open source, web-based platform for remote device management.
>
> -- https://meshcentral.com

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `meshcentral.company` is the FQDN of the MeshCentral installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that have been changed from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

## authentik configuration

Create an OAuth2/OpenID provider with the following parameters:

- Client Type: `Confidential`
- Redirect URIs: `https://meshcentral.company/auth-oidc-callback`
- Scopes: OpenID, Email and Profile
- Signing Key: Select any available key

Note the Client ID and Client Secret values.

Next, create an application, using the provider you've created above.

## MeshCentral configuration

Edit the `config.json` file for your MeshCentral deployment, and add the following code in the `domains:` subsection:

:::info  
For Docker deployments, the `config.json` should be located in the directory on the host machine you mapped to `/opt/meshcentral/meshcentral-data`.
:::

:::info
If you need to enable advanced OIDC configurations, please refer to the [Using the OpenID Connect Strategy](https://ylianst.github.io/MeshCentral/meshcentral/openidConnectStrategy/) section in the MeshCentral documentation for detailed instructions.
:::

```json
    "domains": {
            "authStrategies": {
                "oidc": {
                    "issuer": "https://authentik.company/application/o/meshcentral/",
                    "clientid": "<Client ID>",
                    "clientsecret": "<Client Secret>",
                    "newAccounts": true
                }
            },
```

To ensure everything is setup correctly, restart your MeshCentral instance and visit the main page. You should be greeted with a new button to allow signing in with OIDC.
