website/integrations/services/kimai/index.md, before:

---
title: Integrate with Kimai
sidebar_label: Kimai
---

# Kimai

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Kimai

> Kimai is a free & open source timetracker. It tracks work time and prints out a summary of your activities on demand. Yearly, monthly, daily, by customer, by project … Its simplicity is its strength. Due to Kimai's browser based interface it runs cross-platform, even on your mobile device.
>
> -- https://www.kimai.org/about/

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `kimai.company` is the FQDN of the Kimai Install
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik Install
- `admin.group` is the authentik group to be made Admin in Kimai

Create an application in authentik and use the slug for later as `<application-slug>`.

Create a SAML provider with the following parameters:

- ACS URL: `https://kimai.company/auth/saml/acs`
- Audience: `https://kimai.company/auth/saml`
- Issuer: `https://authentik.company`
- Binding: `Post`

Under _Advanced protocol settings_, set a certificate for _Signing Certificate_.

## Kimai Configuration

Paste the following block in your `local.yaml` file, after replacing the placeholder values from above. The file is usually located in `/opt/kimai/config/packages/local.yaml`.

To get the value for `x509cert`, go to _System_ > _Certificates_, and download the public Signing Certificate. To avoid further problems, concat it into "string format" using e.g.: https://www.samltool.com/format_x509cert.php

```yaml
# Optionally add this for docker debug-logging
# monolog:
#   handlers:
#     main:
#       path: php://stderr

kimai:
    saml:
        activate: true
        title: Login with authentik
        mapping:
            - {
                  saml: $http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/emailaddress,
                  kimai: email,
              }
            - {
                  saml: $http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/name,
                  kimai: alias,
              }
        roles:
            attribute: http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/claims/Group
            mapping:
                # Insert your roles here (ROLE_USER is added automatically)
                - { saml: admin.group, kimai: ROLE_ADMIN }
        connection:
            # You SAML provider
            # Your authentik instance, replace https://authentik.company with your authentik URL
            idp:
                entityId: "https://authentik.company/"
                singleSignOnService:
                    url: "https://authentik.company/application/saml/<application-slug>/sso/binding/redirect/"
                    binding: "urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:bindings:HTTP-Redirect"
                # the "single logout" feature was not yet tested, if you want to help, please let me know!
                singleLogoutService:
                    url: "https://authentik.company/application/saml/<application-slug>/slo/binding/redirect/"
                    binding: "urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:bindings:HTTP-Redirect"
                # Signing certificate from *Advanced protocol settings*
                x509cert: "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX=="
            # Service Provider Data that we are deploying.
            # Your Kimai instance, replace https://kimai.company with your Kimai URL
            sp:
                entityId: "https://kimai.company/"
                assertionConsumerService:
                    url: "https://kimai.company/auth/saml/acs"
                    binding: "urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:bindings:HTTP-POST"
                singleLogoutService:
                    url: "https://kimai.company/auth/saml/logout"
                    binding: "urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:bindings:HTTP-Redirect"
                #privateKey: ''
            # only set baseurl, if auto-detection doesn't work
            baseurl: "https://kimai.company/auth/saml/"
            strict: false
            debug: true
            security:
                nameIdEncrypted: false
                authnRequestsSigned: false
                logoutRequestSigned: false
                logoutResponseSigned: false
                wantMessagesSigned: false
                wantAssertionsSigned: false
                wantNameIdEncrypted: false
                requestedAuthnContext: true
                signMetadata: false
                wantXMLValidation: true
                signatureAlgorithm: "http://www.w3.org/2001/04/xmldsig-more#rsa-sha256"
                digestAlgorithm: "http://www.w3.org/2001/04/xmlenc#sha256"
            contactPerson:
                technical:
                    givenName: "Kimai Admin"
                    emailAddress: "admin@example.com"
            organization:
                en:
                    name: "Kimai"
                    displayname: "Kimai"
                    url: "https://kimai.company"
```

Afterwards, either [rebuild the cache](https://www.kimai.org/documentation/cache.html) or restart the docker container.

Commit message:

website/integrations-all: add default values change warning

website/integrations/services/kimai/index.md, after:

---
title: Integrate with Kimai
sidebar_label: Kimai
---

# Kimai

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Kimai

> Kimai is a free & open source timetracker. It tracks work time and prints out a summary of your activities on demand. Yearly, monthly, daily, by customer, by project … Its simplicity is its strength. Due to Kimai's browser based interface it runs cross-platform, even on your mobile device.
>
> -- https://www.kimai.org/about/

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `kimai.company` is the FQDN of the Kimai Install
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik Install
- `admin.group` is the authentik group to be made Admin in Kimai

Create an application in authentik and use the slug for later as `<application-slug>`.

Create a SAML provider with the following parameters:

- ACS URL: `https://kimai.company/auth/saml/acs`
- Audience: `https://kimai.company/auth/saml`
- Issuer: `https://authentik.company`
- Binding: `Post`

Under _Advanced protocol settings_, set a certificate for _Signing Certificate_.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that have been changed from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

## Kimai Configuration

Paste the following block in your `local.yaml` file, after replacing the placeholder values from above. The file is usually located in `/opt/kimai/config/packages/local.yaml`.

To get the value for `x509cert`, go to _System_ > _Certificates_, and download the public Signing Certificate. To avoid further problems, concat it into "string format" using e.g.: https://www.samltool.com/format_x509cert.php

```yaml
# Optionally add this for docker debug-logging
# monolog:
#   handlers:
#     main:
#       path: php://stderr

kimai:
    saml:
        activate: true
        title: Login with authentik
        mapping:
            - {
                  saml: $http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/emailaddress,
                  kimai: email,
              }
            - {
                  saml: $http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/name,
                  kimai: alias,
              }
        roles:
            attribute: http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/claims/Group
            mapping:
                # Insert your roles here (ROLE_USER is added automatically)
                - { saml: admin.group, kimai: ROLE_ADMIN }
        connection:
            # You SAML provider
            # Your authentik instance, replace https://authentik.company with your authentik URL
            idp:
                entityId: "https://authentik.company/"
                singleSignOnService:
                    url: "https://authentik.company/application/saml/<application-slug>/sso/binding/redirect/"
                    binding: "urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:bindings:HTTP-Redirect"
                # the "single logout" feature was not yet tested, if you want to help, please let me know!
                singleLogoutService:
                    url: "https://authentik.company/application/saml/<application-slug>/slo/binding/redirect/"
                    binding: "urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:bindings:HTTP-Redirect"
                # Signing certificate from *Advanced protocol settings*
                x509cert: "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX=="
            # Service Provider Data that we are deploying.
            # Your Kimai instance, replace https://kimai.company with your Kimai URL
            sp:
                entityId: "https://kimai.company/"
                assertionConsumerService:
                    url: "https://kimai.company/auth/saml/acs"
                    binding: "urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:bindings:HTTP-POST"
                singleLogoutService:
                    url: "https://kimai.company/auth/saml/logout"
                    binding: "urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:bindings:HTTP-Redirect"
                #privateKey: ''
            # only set baseurl, if auto-detection doesn't work
            baseurl: "https://kimai.company/auth/saml/"
            strict: false
            debug: true
            security:
                nameIdEncrypted: false
                authnRequestsSigned: false
                logoutRequestSigned: false
                logoutResponseSigned: false
                wantMessagesSigned: false
                wantAssertionsSigned: false
                wantNameIdEncrypted: false
                requestedAuthnContext: true
                signMetadata: false
                wantXMLValidation: true
                signatureAlgorithm: "http://www.w3.org/2001/04/xmldsig-more#rsa-sha256"
                digestAlgorithm: "http://www.w3.org/2001/04/xmlenc#sha256"
            contactPerson:
                technical:
                    givenName: "Kimai Admin"
                    emailAddress: "admin@example.com"
            organization:
                en:
                    name: "Kimai"
                    displayname: "Kimai"
                    url: "https://kimai.company"
```

Afterwards, either [rebuild the cache](https://www.kimai.org/documentation/cache.html) or restart the docker container.
