website/integrations/services/ironclad/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Integrate with Ironclad
sidebar_label: Ironclad
support_level: community
---

## What is Ironclad

> Ironclad gives business and legal teams an easy-to-use platform with AI-powered tools to handle every aspect of the contract lifecycle.
>
> -- https://ironcladapp.com/

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that you need to change from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

## authentik configuration

To support the integration of Ironclad with authentik, you need to create a property mapping, and an application/provider pair in authentik.

### Create a property mapping

Ironclad requires a first and last name for each user. By default authentik only provides a full name, as a single string value. Therefore you need to create a property mapping to provide first and last names to Ironclad.

1. Log in to authentik as an admin, and open the authentik Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Customization** > **Property Mappings** and click **Create**.

    - **Select type**: select **Scope Mapping** as the property mapping type.
    - **Configure the Scope Mapping**: Provide a descriptive name (e.g. `Ironclad Profile Scope`), and an optional description.

        - **Scope name**: `profile`
        - **Expression**:

        ```python showLineNumbers
        return {
            "name": request.user.name,
            "preferred_username": request.user.username,
            "nickname": request.user.username,
            "groups": [group.name for group in request.user.ak_groups.all()],
            "last_name": request.user.name.rsplit(" ", 1)[-1],
            "first_name": request.user.name.rsplit(" ", 1)[0],
        }
        ```

3. Click **Finish** to save the property mapping.

### Create an application and provider in authentik

1. Log in to authentik as an admin, and open the authentik Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Applications** > **Applications** and click **Create with Provider** to create an application and provider pair. (Alternatively you can first create a provider separately, then create the application and connect it with the provider.)

    - **Application**: provide a descriptive name, an optional group for the type of application, the policy engine mode, and optional UI settings.
    - **Choose a Provider type**: select **SAML Provider** as the provider type.
    - **Configure the Provider**: provide a name (or accept the auto-provided name), the authorization flow to use for this provider, and the following required configurations.

        - Temporarily set the **ACS URL** to `https://temp.temp`
        - Set the **Audience** to `https://ironcladapp.com`
        - Under **Advanced protocol settings**:
            - Set an available signing certificate.
            - **Scopes**:
                - Remove `authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'profile'` from **Selected Scopes**.
                - Add the scope that you created in the previous section (e.g. `Ironclad Profile Scope`) to **Selected Scopes**.

    - **Configure Bindings** _(optional)_: you can create a [binding](/docs/add-secure-apps/flows-stages/bindings/) (policy, group, or user) to manage the listing and access to applications on a user's **My applications** page.

3. Click **Submit** to save the new application and provider.

### Download the signing certificate TEMP?? and metadata file

1. Log into authentik as an admin, and open the authentik Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Applications** > **Providers** and click on the name of the newly created Ironclad provider.
3. Under **Download signing certificate** click the **Download** button. The contents of this certificate will be required in the next section. TEMP????
4. Under **Metadata** click **Download**. This metadata file will be required in the next section.

## Ironclad configuration

Insert Service configuration

1. Write first step here...

2. Continue with steps....

## Reconfigure authentik provider

1. Log in to authentik as an admin, and open the authentik Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Applications** > **Providers** and click the **Edit** icon of the newly created Push Security provider.
3. Under **Protocol settgins**, set the following required configurations:
    - **ACS URL**: set the acs url to the copied `Single Sign-On URL` (e.g. https:TEMP).
4. Click **Update**

## Configuration verification

Template sentence that you can typically use here: "To confirm that authentik is properly configured with Ironclad, log out and log back in via authentik."

If there are more specific validation methods for the Service (e.g., clicking a button), include these instructions for clarity.

Commit message:

Changed wording and updated property mappings

website/integrations/services/ironclad/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Integrate with Ironclad
sidebar_label: Ironclad
support_level: community
---

## What is Ironclad

> Ironclad gives business and legal teams an easy-to-use platform with AI-powered tools to handle every aspect of the contract lifecycle.
>
> -- https://ironcladapp.com/

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that you need to change from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

## authentik configuration

To support the integration of Ironclad with authentik, you need to create a property mapping, and an application/provider pair in authentik.

### Create property mappings

Ironclad requires a first and last name for each user. By default authentik only provides a full name, as a single string value. Therefore you need to create property mappings to provide first and last names to Ironclad.

1. Log in to authentik as an admin, and open the authentik Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Customization** > **Property Mappings** and click **Create**.

    - **Select type**: select **SAML Provider Property Mapping** as the property mapping type.
    - **Configure the SAML Provider Property Mapping**:

        - **Name**: `givenname`
        - **SAML Attribute Name**: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/givenname`
        - **Expression**:

            ```python
            return request.user.name.rsplit(" ", 1)[0]
            ```

3. Click **Finish** to save the property mapping.
4. Click **Create**.

    - **Select type**: select **SAML Provider Property Mapping** as the property mapping type.
    - **Configure the SAML Provider Property Mapping**:

        - **Name**: `familyname`
        - **SAML Attribute Name**: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/surname`
        - **Expression**:

            ```python
            return request.user.name.rsplit(" ", 1)[-1]
            ```

5. Click **Finish** to save the property mapping.

### Create an application and provider in authentik

1. Log in to authentik as an admin, and open the authentik Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Applications** > **Applications** and click **Create with Provider** to create an application and provider pair. (Alternatively you can first create a provider separately, then create the application and connect it with the provider.)

    - **Application**: provide a descriptive name, an optional group for the type of application, the policy engine mode, and optional UI settings.
    - **Choose a Provider type**: select **SAML Provider** as the provider type.
    - **Configure the Provider**: provide a name (or accept the auto-provided name), the authorization flow to use for this provider, and the following required configurations.

        - Temporarily set the **ACS URL** to `https://temp.temp`
        - Set the **Audience** to `ironcladapp.com`
        - Under **Advanced protocol settings**:
            - Set an available signing certificate.
            - **Property mappings**:
                - Add the `givenname` and `familyname` property mappings that you created in the previous section to **Selected User Property Mappings**.

    - **Configure Bindings** _(optional)_: you can create a [binding](/docs/add-secure-apps/flows-stages/bindings/) (policy, group, or user) to manage the listing and access to applications on a user's **My applications** page.

3. Click **Submit** to save the new application and provider.

### Download the signing certificate and metadata file

1. Log into authentik as an admin, and open the authentik Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Applications** > **Providers** and click on the name of the newly created Ironclad provider.
3. Under **Download signing certificate** click the **Download** button. The contents of this certificate will be required in the next section. TEMP????
4. Under **Metadata** click **Download**. This metadata file will be required in the next section.

## Ironclad configuration

Insert Service configuration

1. Write first step here...

2. Continue with steps....

## Reconfigure authentik provider

1. Log in to authentik as an admin, and open the authentik Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Applications** > **Providers** and click the **Edit** icon of the newly created Push Security provider.
3. Under **Protocol settgins**, set the following required configurations:
    - **ACS URL**: set the acs url to the copied `Single Sign-On URL` (e.g. https:TEMP).
4. Click **Update**

## Configuration verification

Template sentence that you can typically use here: "To confirm that authentik is properly configured with Ironclad, log out and log back in via authentik."

If there are more specific validation methods for the Service (e.g., clicking a button), include these instructions for clarity.
