website/integrations/services/proftpd/index.md, before:

---
title: Integrate with ProFTPD
sidebar_label: ProFTPD
---

# ProFTPD

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is ProFTPD

> ProFTPD is a high-performance, extremely configurable, and most of all a secure FTP server, featuring Apache-like configuration and blazing performance.
>
> -- From http://www.proftpd.org

This integration leverages authentik's LDAP for the identity provider to achieve an SSO experience. See [ldap provider generic setup](https://docs.goauthentik.io/docs/add-secure-apps/providers/ldap/generic_setup) for setting up the LDAP provider.

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

## authentik Configuration

### Step 1 - Service account

Create a new user account _(or reuse an existing one)_ for ProFTPD to use for LDAP bind under _Directory_ -> _Users_ -> _Create_ and give the account a name, such as `ldapservice`.

:::note
On default provider settings, the DN of this user will be `cn=ldapservice,ou=users,dc=ldap,dc=goauthentik,dc=io`
:::

This user must be part of a group which allows LDAP search queries. If you don't have a group for that yet, create one (e.g. `LDAPServiceUsers`) and add the user `ldapservice` to that group. You can specify that group during the provider creation below.

:::note
_If you are unfamiliar with LDAP_: A bind account is used for authentication against the LDAP server itself - similar to an API key in modern applications.
:::

### Step 2 - LDAP Provider

In authentik, create a LDAP provider (under _Applications/Providers_). This is an example for the settings:

- Name : `provider-ldap` - or choose any
- Bind DN : `DC=ldap,DC=goauthentik,DC=io`
- Search group : `LDAPServiceUsers`
- Certificate : `authentik Self-signed Certificate`

### Step 3 - Application

In authentik, create an application (under _Resources/Applications_) with these settings :

- Name: `FTP` - or choose any
- Provider: Choose the provider you created in _Step 2_

### Step 4 - Outpost

If not done yet, create an outpost (under _Applications/Outposts_) of type `LDAP` that includes the LDAP Application you created in _Step 3_. You can also use an existing outpost, just make sure to edit it and to also include the just created application in the respective field.

### Step 5 - Create a group for restricting access

_Optionally_, create a new group like `ftpusers` to scope access to the ftp server.

## ProFTPD configuration

Ensure that the ProFTPD LDAP plugin is installed, which may be included in the distribution package `proftpd-ldap`.

Check that `LoadModule mod_ldap.c` is not commented out in `/etc/proftpd/modules.conf`.

Edit your ProFTPD configuration, usually located under `/etc/proftpd.conf`. You can use the following LDAP configuration as a starting point.

```bash
DefaultRoot /your/ftp/storage/dir

<IfModule mod_ldap.c>
    LDAPAuthBinds on
    # Replace this with the server-url:port of your LDAP outpost
    LDAPServer authentik.company:389
    # The LDAP Bind account must be specified here
    LDAPBindDN cn=ldapservice,ou=users,dc=ldap,dc=goauthentik,dc=io PASSWORDOFLDAPSERVICE
    # The second parameter is optional
    #  In this case I am restricting access to the group ftpusers
    #  Instead you could also create bind policies in your created authentik application
    LDAPUsers ou=users,dc=ldap,dc=goauthentik,dc=io (&(objectClass=user)(cn=%u)(memberOf=cn=ftpusers,ou=groups,dc=ldap,dc=goauthentik,dc=io))

    # In this example, I am forcing the permission of all files to the system user/group 1000
    LDAPDefaultUID 1000
    LDAPDefaultGID 1000
    LDAPForceDefaultUID on
    LDAPForceDefaultGID on

    # This way I am making a shared folder, which all ftp users share
    LDAPGenerateHomedir on
    LDAPGenerateHomedirPrefix /your/ftp/storage/dir
    LDAPGenerateHomedirPrefixNoUsername on

    LDAPLog /var/log/mod_ldap.log

    RequireValidShell off

    LDAPAttr uid cn

    LDAPSearchScope subtree
</IfModule>
```

In this example, every user shares a single folder. If you want to have separate folders for each user, you can adapt the `LDAPGenerateHomedirPrefixNoUsername` setting.

Additionally, note that each file will have Linux user and group ID `1000`. Beforehand, make sure that the respective Linux user exists (usually the first Linux user created receives ID `1000`). Check `/etc/passwd` and create a user if necessary.

If you do not set `LDAPForceDefaultUID`/`LDAPForceDefaultGID`, Authentik's `uidNumber` field will be used. If you do not set `LDAPGenerateHomedir`, Authentik's `homeDirectory` field will be used (`/home/$username`). For more information about default attributes provided by Authentik, refer to the [LDAP Provider documentation](https://docs.goauthentik.io/docs/add-secure-apps/providers/ldap).

Make sure to read ProFTPD's [available LDAP options](http://www.proftpd.org/docs/contrib/mod_ldap.html).

Finally, after adding the configuration, restart ProFTPD.

:::note
If login fails, make sure to check the logs of the LDAP plugin: `tail -f /var/log/mod_ldap.log`.
:::

Commit message:

website/integrations-all: add default values change warning

website/integrations/services/proftpd/index.md, after:

---
title: Integrate with ProFTPD
sidebar_label: ProFTPD
---

# ProFTPD

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is ProFTPD

> ProFTPD is a high-performance, extremely configurable, and most of all a secure FTP server, featuring Apache-like configuration and blazing performance.
>
> -- From http://www.proftpd.org

This integration leverages authentik's LDAP for the identity provider to achieve an SSO experience. See [ldap provider generic setup](https://docs.goauthentik.io/docs/add-secure-apps/providers/ldap/generic_setup) for setting up the LDAP provider.

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that have been changed from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

## authentik Configuration

### Step 1 - Service account

Create a new user account _(or reuse an existing one)_ for ProFTPD to use for LDAP bind under _Directory_ -> _Users_ -> _Create_ and give the account a name, such as `ldapservice`.

:::note
On default provider settings, the DN of this user will be `cn=ldapservice,ou=users,dc=ldap,dc=goauthentik,dc=io`
:::

This user must be part of a group which allows LDAP search queries. If you don't have a group for that yet, create one (e.g. `LDAPServiceUsers`) and add the user `ldapservice` to that group. You can specify that group during the provider creation below.

:::note
_If you are unfamiliar with LDAP_: A bind account is used for authentication against the LDAP server itself - similar to an API key in modern applications.
:::

### Step 2 - LDAP Provider

In authentik, create a LDAP provider (under _Applications/Providers_). This is an example for the settings:

- Name : `provider-ldap` - or choose any
- Bind DN : `DC=ldap,DC=goauthentik,DC=io`
- Search group : `LDAPServiceUsers`
- Certificate : `authentik Self-signed Certificate`

### Step 3 - Application

In authentik, create an application (under _Resources/Applications_) with these settings :

- Name: `FTP` - or choose any
- Provider: Choose the provider you created in _Step 2_

### Step 4 - Outpost

If not done yet, create an outpost (under _Applications/Outposts_) of type `LDAP` that includes the LDAP Application you created in _Step 3_. You can also use an existing outpost, just make sure to edit it and to also include the just created application in the respective field.

### Step 5 - Create a group for restricting access

_Optionally_, create a new group like `ftpusers` to scope access to the ftp server.

## ProFTPD configuration

Ensure that the ProFTPD LDAP plugin is installed, which may be included in the distribution package `proftpd-ldap`.

Check that `LoadModule mod_ldap.c` is not commented out in `/etc/proftpd/modules.conf`.

Edit your ProFTPD configuration, usually located under `/etc/proftpd.conf`. You can use the following LDAP configuration as a starting point.

```bash
DefaultRoot /your/ftp/storage/dir

<IfModule mod_ldap.c>
    LDAPAuthBinds on
    # Replace this with the server-url:port of your LDAP outpost
    LDAPServer authentik.company:389
    # The LDAP Bind account must be specified here
    LDAPBindDN cn=ldapservice,ou=users,dc=ldap,dc=goauthentik,dc=io PASSWORDOFLDAPSERVICE
    # The second parameter is optional
    #  In this case I am restricting access to the group ftpusers
    #  Instead you could also create bind policies in your created authentik application
    LDAPUsers ou=users,dc=ldap,dc=goauthentik,dc=io (&(objectClass=user)(cn=%u)(memberOf=cn=ftpusers,ou=groups,dc=ldap,dc=goauthentik,dc=io))

    # In this example, I am forcing the permission of all files to the system user/group 1000
    LDAPDefaultUID 1000
    LDAPDefaultGID 1000
    LDAPForceDefaultUID on
    LDAPForceDefaultGID on

    # This way I am making a shared folder, which all ftp users share
    LDAPGenerateHomedir on
    LDAPGenerateHomedirPrefix /your/ftp/storage/dir
    LDAPGenerateHomedirPrefixNoUsername on

    LDAPLog /var/log/mod_ldap.log

    RequireValidShell off

    LDAPAttr uid cn

    LDAPSearchScope subtree
</IfModule>
```

In this example, every user shares a single folder. If you want to have separate folders for each user, you can adapt the `LDAPGenerateHomedirPrefixNoUsername` setting.

Additionally, note that each file will have Linux user and group ID `1000`. Beforehand, make sure that the respective Linux user exists (usually the first Linux user created receives ID `1000`). Check `/etc/passwd` and create a user if necessary.

If you do not set `LDAPForceDefaultUID`/`LDAPForceDefaultGID`, Authentik's `uidNumber` field will be used. If you do not set `LDAPGenerateHomedir`, Authentik's `homeDirectory` field will be used (`/home/$username`). For more information about default attributes provided by Authentik, refer to the [LDAP Provider documentation](https://docs.goauthentik.io/docs/add-secure-apps/providers/ldap).

Make sure to read ProFTPD's [available LDAP options](http://www.proftpd.org/docs/contrib/mod_ldap.html).

Finally, after adding the configuration, restart ProFTPD.

:::note
If login fails, make sure to check the logs of the LDAP plugin: `tail -f /var/log/mod_ldap.log`.
:::
