website/integrations/services/argocd/index.md, before:

---
title: Integrate with ArgoCD
sidebar_label: ArgoCD
---

# ArgoCD

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is ArgoCD

> Argo CD is a declarative, GitOps continuous delivery tool for Kubernetes.
>
> -- https://argoproj.github.io/cd/

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `argocd.company` is the FQDN of the ArgoCD installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
Only settings that have been modified from default have been listed.
:::

## authentik Configuration

### Step 1 - Provider creation

In authentik, create an _OAuth2/OpenID Provider_ (under _Applications/Providers_) with these settings:

- Name: ArgoCD
- Client Type: `Confidential`
- Signing Key: Select any available key
- Redirect URIs:

```
https://argocd.company/api/dex/callback
http://localhost:8085/auth/callback
```

After creating the provider, take note of the `Client ID` and `Client Secret`, you'll need to give them to ArgoCD in the _ArgoCD Configuration_ field.

### Step 2 - Application creation

Create a new _Application_ (under _Applications/Applications_) with these settings:

- Name: ArgoCD
- Provider: ArgoCD
- Slug: argocd
- Launch URL: https://argocd.company/auth/login

### Step 3 - ArgoCD Group creation

Create a new _Group_ (under _Directory/Groups_) that'll be used as the admin group for ArgoCD (if you already have an "admin" group, you can skip this part!)

- Name: ArgoCD Admins
- Members: Add your user and/or any user that should be an ArgoCD admin

You can create another group for read-only access to ArgoCD as well if desired:

- Name: ArgoCD Viewers
- Members: Any user that should have ArgoCD read-only access

## Terraform provider

```hcl
data "authentik_flow" "default-provider-authorization-implicit-consent" {
  slug = "default-provider-authorization-implicit-consent"
}

data "authentik_flow" "default-provider-invalidation" {
  slug = "default-invalidation-flow"
}

data "authentik_property_mapping_provider_scope" "scope-email" {
  name = "authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'email'"
}

data "authentik_property_mapping_provider_scope" "scope-profile" {
  name = "authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'profile'"
}

data "authentik_property_mapping_provider_scope" "scope-openid" {
  name = "authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'openid'"
}

data "authentik_certificate_key_pair" "generated" {
  name = "authentik Self-signed Certificate"
}

resource "authentik_provider_oauth2" "argocd" {
  name          = "ArgoCD"
  #  Required. You can use the output of:
  #     $ openssl rand -hex 16
  client_id     = "my_client_id"

  # Optional: will be generated if not provided
  # client_secret = "my_client_secret"

  authorization_flow = data.authentik_flow.default-provider-authorization-implicit_consent.id
  invalidation_flow  = data.authentik_flow.default-provider-invalidation.id

  signing_key = data.authentik_certificate_key_pair.generated.id

  allowed_redirect_uris = [
    {
      matching_mode = "strict",
      url           = "https://argocd.company/api/dex/callback",
    },
    {
      matching_mode = "strict",
      url           = "http://localhost:8085/auth/callback",
    }
  ]

  property_mappings = [
    data.authentik_property_mapping_provider_scope.scope-email.id,
    data.authentik_property_mapping_provider_scope.scope-profile.id,
    data.authentik_property_mapping_provider_scope.scope-openid.id,
  ]
}

resource "authentik_application" "argocd" {
  name              = "ArgoCD"
  slug              = "argocd"
  protocol_provider = authentik_provider_oauth2.argocd.id
}

resource "authentik_group" "argocd_admins" {
  name    = "ArgoCD Admins"
}

resource "authentik_group" "argocd_viewers" {
  name    = "ArgoCD Viewers"
}
```

## ArgoCD Configuration

:::note
We're not going to use the oidc config, but instead the "dex", oidc doesn't allow ArgoCD CLI usage while DEX does.
:::

### Step 1 - Add the OIDC Secret to ArgoCD

In the `argocd-secret` Secret, add the following value to the `data` field:

```yaml
dex.authentik.clientSecret: <base 64 encoded value of the Client Secret from the Provider above>
```

If using Helm, the above can be added to `configs.secret.extra` in your ArgoCD Helm `values.yaml` file as shown below, securely substituting the string however you see fit:

```yaml
configs:
    secret:
        extra:
            dex.authentik.clientSecret: "${argocd_authentik_client_secret}"
```

### Step 2 - Configure ArgoCD to use authentik as OIDC backend

In the `argocd-cm` ConfigMap, add the following to the data field :

```yaml
url: https://argocd.company
dex.config: |
    connectors:
    - config:
        issuer: https://authentik.company/application/o/<application slug defined in step 2>/
        clientID: <client ID from the Provider above>
        clientSecret: $dex.authentik.clientSecret
        insecureEnableGroups: true
        scopes:
          - openid
          - profile
          - email
      name: authentik
      type: oidc
      id: authentik
```

### Step 3 - Map the `ArgoCD Admins` group to ArgoCD's admin role

In the `argocd-rbac-cm` ConfigMap, add the following to the data field (or create it if it's not already there) :

```yaml
policy.csv: |
    g, ArgoCD Admins, role:admin
    g, ArgoCD Viewers, role:readonly
```

If you already had an "admin" group and thus didn't create the `ArgoCD Admins` one, just replace `ArgoCD Admins` with your existing group name.
If you did not opt to create a read-only group, or chose to use one with a different name in authentik, rename or remove here accordingly.

Apply all the modified manifests, and you should be able to login to ArgoCD both through the UI and the CLI.

Commit message:

website/integrations-all: add default values change warning

website/integrations/services/argocd/index.md, after:

---
title: Integrate with ArgoCD
sidebar_label: ArgoCD
---

# ArgoCD

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is ArgoCD

> Argo CD is a declarative, GitOps continuous delivery tool for Kubernetes.
>
> -- https://argoproj.github.io/cd/

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `argocd.company` is the FQDN of the ArgoCD installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that have been changed from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

## authentik Configuration

### Step 1 - Provider creation

In authentik, create an _OAuth2/OpenID Provider_ (under _Applications/Providers_) with these settings:

- Name: ArgoCD
- Client Type: `Confidential`
- Signing Key: Select any available key
- Redirect URIs:

```
https://argocd.company/api/dex/callback
http://localhost:8085/auth/callback
```

After creating the provider, take note of the `Client ID` and `Client Secret`, you'll need to give them to ArgoCD in the _ArgoCD Configuration_ field.

### Step 2 - Application creation

Create a new _Application_ (under _Applications/Applications_) with these settings:

- Name: ArgoCD
- Provider: ArgoCD
- Slug: argocd
- Launch URL: https://argocd.company/auth/login

### Step 3 - ArgoCD Group creation

Create a new _Group_ (under _Directory/Groups_) that'll be used as the admin group for ArgoCD (if you already have an "admin" group, you can skip this part!)

- Name: ArgoCD Admins
- Members: Add your user and/or any user that should be an ArgoCD admin

You can create another group for read-only access to ArgoCD as well if desired:

- Name: ArgoCD Viewers
- Members: Any user that should have ArgoCD read-only access

## Terraform provider

```hcl
data "authentik_flow" "default-provider-authorization-implicit-consent" {
  slug = "default-provider-authorization-implicit-consent"
}

data "authentik_flow" "default-provider-invalidation" {
  slug = "default-invalidation-flow"
}

data "authentik_property_mapping_provider_scope" "scope-email" {
  name = "authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'email'"
}

data "authentik_property_mapping_provider_scope" "scope-profile" {
  name = "authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'profile'"
}

data "authentik_property_mapping_provider_scope" "scope-openid" {
  name = "authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'openid'"
}

data "authentik_certificate_key_pair" "generated" {
  name = "authentik Self-signed Certificate"
}

resource "authentik_provider_oauth2" "argocd" {
  name          = "ArgoCD"
  #  Required. You can use the output of:
  #     $ openssl rand -hex 16
  client_id     = "my_client_id"

  # Optional: will be generated if not provided
  # client_secret = "my_client_secret"

  authorization_flow = data.authentik_flow.default-provider-authorization-implicit_consent.id
  invalidation_flow  = data.authentik_flow.default-provider-invalidation.id

  signing_key = data.authentik_certificate_key_pair.generated.id

  allowed_redirect_uris = [
    {
      matching_mode = "strict",
      url           = "https://argocd.company/api/dex/callback",
    },
    {
      matching_mode = "strict",
      url           = "http://localhost:8085/auth/callback",
    }
  ]

  property_mappings = [
    data.authentik_property_mapping_provider_scope.scope-email.id,
    data.authentik_property_mapping_provider_scope.scope-profile.id,
    data.authentik_property_mapping_provider_scope.scope-openid.id,
  ]
}

resource "authentik_application" "argocd" {
  name              = "ArgoCD"
  slug              = "argocd"
  protocol_provider = authentik_provider_oauth2.argocd.id
}

resource "authentik_group" "argocd_admins" {
  name    = "ArgoCD Admins"
}

resource "authentik_group" "argocd_viewers" {
  name    = "ArgoCD Viewers"
}
```

## ArgoCD Configuration

:::note
We're not going to use the oidc config, but instead the "dex", oidc doesn't allow ArgoCD CLI usage while DEX does.
:::

### Step 1 - Add the OIDC Secret to ArgoCD

In the `argocd-secret` Secret, add the following value to the `data` field:

```yaml
dex.authentik.clientSecret: <base 64 encoded value of the Client Secret from the Provider above>
```

If using Helm, the above can be added to `configs.secret.extra` in your ArgoCD Helm `values.yaml` file as shown below, securely substituting the string however you see fit:

```yaml
configs:
    secret:
        extra:
            dex.authentik.clientSecret: "${argocd_authentik_client_secret}"
```

### Step 2 - Configure ArgoCD to use authentik as OIDC backend

In the `argocd-cm` ConfigMap, add the following to the data field :

```yaml
url: https://argocd.company
dex.config: |
    connectors:
    - config:
        issuer: https://authentik.company/application/o/<application slug defined in step 2>/
        clientID: <client ID from the Provider above>
        clientSecret: $dex.authentik.clientSecret
        insecureEnableGroups: true
        scopes:
          - openid
          - profile
          - email
      name: authentik
      type: oidc
      id: authentik
```

### Step 3 - Map the `ArgoCD Admins` group to ArgoCD's admin role

In the `argocd-rbac-cm` ConfigMap, add the following to the data field (or create it if it's not already there) :

```yaml
policy.csv: |
    g, ArgoCD Admins, role:admin
    g, ArgoCD Viewers, role:readonly
```

If you already had an "admin" group and thus didn't create the `ArgoCD Admins` one, just replace `ArgoCD Admins` with your existing group name.
If you did not opt to create a read-only group, or chose to use one with a different name in authentik, rename or remove here accordingly.

Apply all the modified manifests, and you should be able to login to ArgoCD both through the UI and the CLI.
