website/integrations/services/github-organization/index.md, before:

---
title: Integrate with GitHub Organization
sidebar_label: GitHub Organization
---

# Integrate with GitHub Organization

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is GitHub Organizations

> Organizations are shared accounts where businesses and open-source projects can collaborate across many projects at once, with sophisticated security and administrative features.
>
> -- https://docs.github.com/en/organizations/collaborating-with-groups-in-organizations/about-organizations

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `github.com/orgs/foo` is your GitHub organization, where `foo` is the name of your org
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik Install

Create an application in authentik and note the slug, as this will be used later. Create a SAML provider with the following parameters:

- ACS URL: `https://github.com/orgs/foo/saml/consume`
- Audience: `https://github.com/orgs/foo`
- Issuer: `https://github.com/orgs/foo`
- Binding: `Post`

Under _Advanced protocol settings_, set a certificate for _Signing Certificate_.

Once the provider is created, it is advised to download the signing certificate as you will need it later.

## GitHub Configuration

Navigate to your organization settings by going to your organization page at https://github.com/foo, then click Settings.

In the left-hand navigation, scroll down to the Security section and click `Authentication security`

On this page:

- Select the `Enable SAML authentication` checkbox.
- In `sign-on URL`, type `https://authentik.company/application/saml/<authentik application slug>/sso/binding/redirect/`
- For `Issuer`, type `https://github.com/orgs/foo` or the `Audience` you set in authentik
- For `Public certificate`, paste the _full_ signing certificate into this field.
- Verify that the `Signature method` and `Digest method` match your SAML provider settings in authentik.

Once these fields are populated, you can use the `Test SAML configuration` button to test the authentication flow. If the flow completes successfully, you will see a green tick next to the Test button.

Scroll down to hit the `Save` button below.

![Screenshot showing populated GitHub organization SAML settings](ghorg_saml_settings.png)

This enables SAML as an authentication _option_. If you want to _require_ SAML for your organization, visit your SSO url at `https://github.com/orgs/foo/sso` and sign in. Once signed in, you can navigate back to the `Authentication security` page and check `Require SAML SSO authentication for all members of the foo organization.`

Commit message:

website/integrations-all: add default values change warning (#12777)
* website/integrations-all: add default values change warning

* website/integrations-all: update message

* Update website/integrations/services/gitea/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/gitea/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/pgadmin/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/hashicorp-cloud/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/hashicorp-vault/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/oracle-cloud/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/hashicorp-vault/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/pgadmin/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/proxmox-ve/index.md

Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>

* Update website/integrations/services/zammad/index.md

Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>

* Update website/integrations/services/writefreely/index.md

Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>

---------

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>
Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>
Co-authored-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

website/integrations/services/github-organization/index.md, after:

---
title: Integrate with GitHub Organization
sidebar_label: GitHub Organization
---

# Integrate with GitHub Organization

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is GitHub Organizations

> Organizations are shared accounts where businesses and open-source projects can collaborate across many projects at once, with sophisticated security and administrative features.
>
> -- https://docs.github.com/en/organizations/collaborating-with-groups-in-organizations/about-organizations

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `github.com/orgs/foo` is your GitHub organization, where `foo` is the name of your org
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

Create an application in authentik and note the slug, as this will be used later. Create a SAML provider with the following parameters:

- ACS URL: `https://github.com/orgs/foo/saml/consume`
- Audience: `https://github.com/orgs/foo`
- Issuer: `https://github.com/orgs/foo`
- Binding: `Post`

Under _Advanced protocol settings_, set a certificate for _Signing Certificate_.

Once the provider is created, it is advised to download the signing certificate as you will need it later.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that you need to change from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

## GitHub Configuration

Navigate to your organization settings by going to your organization page at https://github.com/foo, then click Settings.

In the left-hand navigation, scroll down to the Security section and click `Authentication security`

On this page:

- Select the `Enable SAML authentication` checkbox.
- In `sign-on URL`, type `https://authentik.company/application/saml/<authentik application slug>/sso/binding/redirect/`
- For `Issuer`, type `https://github.com/orgs/foo` or the `Audience` you set in authentik
- For `Public certificate`, paste the _full_ signing certificate into this field.
- Verify that the `Signature method` and `Digest method` match your SAML provider settings in authentik.

Once these fields are populated, you can use the `Test SAML configuration` button to test the authentication flow. If the flow completes successfully, you will see a green tick next to the Test button.

Scroll down to hit the `Save` button below.

![Screenshot showing populated GitHub organization SAML settings](ghorg_saml_settings.png)

This enables SAML as an authentication _option_. If you want to _require_ SAML for your organization, visit your SSO url at `https://github.com/orgs/foo/sso` and sign in. Once signed in, you can navigate back to the `Authentication security` page and check `Require SAML SSO authentication for all members of the foo organization.`
