website/integrations/template/service.md, before:

---
title: Integrate with Service Name
sidebar_label: Service Name
---

# Service Name

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Service-Name

> Insert a quick overview of what Service Name is and what it does. Simply describe the product and what it is, how it is used, and do not include marketing or sales-oriented content.
>
> -- https://service.xyz

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `service.company` is the FQDN of the Service installation. (Remove this for SaaS)
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

## Service configuration

Insert Service configuration

1. Write first step here...

2. Continue with steps....

## authentik configuration

Insert authentik configuration

1. Write first step here...

2. Continue with steps....

## Configuration verification

Template sentence that you can typically use here: "To confirm that authentik is properly configured with _Service Name_, log out and log back in via authentik."

If there are more specific validation methods for the Service (e.g., clicking a button), include these instructions for clarity.

Commit message:

website/integrations-all: add default values change warning

website/integrations/template/service.md, after:

---
title: Integrate with Service Name
sidebar_label: Service Name
---

# Service Name

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Service-Name

> Insert a quick overview of what Service Name is and what it does. Simply describe the product and what it is, how it is used, and do not include marketing or sales-oriented content.
>
> -- https://service.xyz

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `service.company` is the FQDN of the Service installation. (Remove this for SaaS)
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that have been changed from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

## Service configuration

Insert Service configuration

1. Write first step here...

2. Continue with steps....

## authentik configuration

Insert authentik configuration

1. Write first step here...

2. Continue with steps....

## Configuration verification

Template sentence that you can typically use here: "To confirm that authentik is properly configured with _Service Name_, log out and log back in via authentik."

If there are more specific validation methods for the Service (e.g., clicking a button), include these instructions for clarity.
