---
title: WS-Fed Provider
---

The WS-Fed provider is used to integrate with applications and service providers that use [WS-Fed protocol](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/openspecs/windows_protocols/ms-adfsod/204de335-ea34-4f9b-ae73-8b7d4c8152d1). (WS-Fed) is an XML-based identity federation protocol that uses token exchange for federated Single Sign-On (SSO) and IdP authentication, specifically for Windows applications such as Sharepoint.

There are similarities between WS-Fed and SAML protocols, but there are also key differences. Some to be aware of include:

| WS-Fed                                                                                                                   | SAML                                                 |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| **Request Security Token (RST)** acts as the secure token sent by the Identity Provider (IdP) to the Relying Party (RP). | **SAML request**                                     |
| **Request Security Token Response (RSTR)**                                                                               | **SAML response** with an assertion                  |
| **RP (relying party)** and **STS (Security Token Service)**                                                              | **RP (relying party)** and **SP (Service Provider)** |

::: SAML2 token support
Note that we only support the SAML2 token type within WS-Federation providers, and that using the WS-Fed provider with Entra ID is not supported because Entra ID requires a SAML 1.0 token.
:::

## Supported URL request parameters

The following URL request parameters are supported in the authentik WS-Fed provider:

- **wa**: The is a required parameter that represents the action being requested, typically wsignin1.0 for signing in. The parameter's value tells the Security Token Service (STS) which operation to execute.
- **wtrealm**: The identifier (URI) of the requesting realm, that is, the Relying Party (RP) or application receiving the token, e.g., urn:my-app:rp. (a trust realm, which instance of what app is talking to it). a required query string parameter that acts as the unique identifier for the relying party (RP) application, informing the Security Token Service (STS/Identity Provider) which application is requesting a token.
- **wreply**: The destination URL where the identity provider should send the response (security token) that is generated by the IdP. this is the url the SP gives us.. authentik compares this to the one that the Admin who created the provider gave and is now in DB,
- **wctx**: A context value to be passed back and forth, allowing the RP to maintain state across redirects. which is same as “relay state” in SAML. We give this back and they validate that it is same.

## WS-Fed bindings and endpoints

_Bindings_ define how an Identity Provider (IdP) and a Service Provider (SP) communicate; how messages are transported over network protocols, specifying transport (like HTTP), encoding, and security detail that allow WS-Fed to facilitate secure identity sharing across systems. Both IdPs and SPs define various endpoints in their metadata, each associated with a specific WS-Fed binding.

In authentik, you can select one of two WS-Fed bindings: `HTTP Redirect` or `HTTP POST`.

_Endpoint URLs_ specify where and how the messages are sent according to that binding. The table below shows the supported endpoints for each binding:

| Endpoint | URL |
| ------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | |
| SSO (POST binding) | `/application/ws-fed/<application_slug>/sso/binding/post/` |
| SSO (IdP-initiated login) | `/application/ws-fed/<application_slug>/sso/binding/init/` |
| SLO (POST binding) | `/application/ws-fed/<application_slug>/slo/binding/post/` |
| Metadata Download | `/application/ws-fed/<application_slug>/metadata/` |

## WS-Fed metadata

Using metadata ensures that WS-Fed single sign-on works reliably by exchanging and maintaining identity and connection information. WS-Fed metadata is an XML document that defines how IdPs and SPs securely interact for authentication. It includes information such as endpoints, bindings, certificates, and unique identifiers. The metadata is what you provide the application (the STS, in WS-Fed terms) in order to configure it for authenticating with authentik.

### Importing SP WS-Fed metadata

You can import WS-Fed metadata to automatically configure a WS-Fed provider based on the requirements of an STS.

### Exporting authentik WS-Fed metadata

You can export WS-Fed metadata from an authentik WS-Fed provider to an STS to automatically provide important endpoint and certificate information to the SP.

+++
Reply URL: Enter the Application Callback URL (the applications's Assertion Consumer Service URL) where the token should be sent.

## Certificates

The certificates used with WS-Fed to sign Request Security Token Response (RSTR), which contains the assertion, are the same certificates that are used by SAML.

For details, refer to our [SAML certificates documentation](../saml/index.md#certificates).

## WS-Fed property mappings

Property mappings are used during the authentication process to align, or "map", user attributes values between the IdP and STS (Security Token Service), the latter being the equivalent of SAML's SP.

The same property mappings that are used in WS-Fed are used in SAML. For details, refer to our [SAML property mapping documentation](../saml/index.md#certificates).

## Attributes for WS-Fed

Ws_Fed and SAML also share the use of the [NameID](../saml/index.md#nameid) and the [AuthnContextClassRef](../saml/index.md#authncontextclassref) attributes.
