---
title: Release 2026.11
slug: "/releases/2026.11"
draft: true
---

## Highlights

## Breaking changes

### Passwords are authenticator devices

Local passwords are now stored in password authenticator devices instead of fields on the User model. The upgrade migration preserves each user's password hash and password change date, and binds the new device to the `default-authentication-password` stage.

Custom expressions and property mappings that access `request.user.password` or `request.user.password_change_date` must use `request.user.password_device.password` or `request.user.password_device.password_change_date`. Password devices can be absent for users that have never had a local password, so custom expressions must handle that case. Setting a password as unusable retains its device. In User API responses, `password_change_date` moves to `password_device.password_change_date`; the password hash is never included.

Password stages that own password devices cannot be deleted until their devices are reassigned.

## New features and improvements

## Upgrading

This release does not introduce any new requirements. You can follow the upgrade instructions below; for more detailed information about upgrading authentik, refer to our [Upgrade documentation](../../install-config/upgrade.mdx).

:::warning Upgrade in order and upgrade all components
Upgrades MUST be performed sequentially by major version. If you are two or more major releases behind, you must first upgrade to each intermediate major release before upgrading to this one. Refer to our [Upgrade documentation](../../install-config/upgrade.mdx) for more information on upgrade sequence.

The version of the authentik instance and of any outposts must be the same. We recommend that you always upgrade any outposts at the same time you upgrade your authentik instance.
:::

### Docker Compose

To upgrade, download the new compose file and update the Docker stack with the new version, using these commands:

```shell
wget -O compose.yml https://goauthentik.io/version/2026.11/lifecycle/container/compose.yml
docker compose up -d
```

The `-O` flag retains the downloaded file's name, overwriting any existing local file with the same name.

### Kubernetes

Upgrade the Helm Chart to the new version, using the following commands:

```shell
helm repo update
helm upgrade authentik authentik/authentik -f values.yaml --version ^2026.11
```

## Minor changes/fixes

<!-- _Insert the output of `make gen-changelog` here_ -->

## API Changes

<!-- _Insert output of `make gen-diff` here_ -->
