---
title: Release 2026.2
slug: "/releases/2026.2"
beta: true
---

## Highlights

TODO: @fheisler reword please and thank you

This release focuses on minor features and bugfixes. However, a couple of major enterprise features also made it in:

- **SCIM provider**: Major improvements to the SCIM provider have been made by community contributions from @ImmanuelVonNeumann and @bitpavel-l25 in the form of [sync improvements](https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/pull/13947) and [group imports](https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/pull/19846). Thank you!
- **Object Lifecycle Management**: :ak-enterprise :ak-preview You can now automatically schedule periodic reviews of authentik objects (applications, groups, roles).
- **WS-Federation**: :ak-enterprise authentik now supports WS-Federation, a single sign-on and identity federation protocol.

### Release frequency change

In recent years a new authentik release was cut more-or-less every 2 months. We feel that our feature set is now mature enough to target a 3-month release cycle. The next release is therefore planned for May 2026.

In terms of security, we will keep to our current practice of supporting the two most recently released versions. The releases being further apart results in longer security coverage.

## Breaking changes

### SCIM group syncing behavior

Users will now be filtered based on the policies bound to the application the SCIM provider is used with. There is now an option to select groups in the SCIM provider, which, if selected, will only sync those groups, and if no groups are selected, all groups will be synced. If you have a SCIM provider with a group filter setup, it will be deactivated and a configuration warning will be created, for you to review the configuration.

### Policies / Property mappings

`User.ak_groups` has been deprecated. Users' groups are now accessed through `User.groups`. Usage of `.ak_groups` will continue to function, but will create a configuration warning event, at most every 30 days. We recommend you check any custom code (e.g. expression policies, property mappings) that deals with group memberships to update them if necessary.

## New features and improvements

### Object lifecycle management :ak-enterprise :ak-preview

Object Lifecycle Management allows you to schedule and track periodic reviews for Applications, Groups and Roles. Reviewing access privileges to specific applications is an important best practice, as is reviewing other settings such as your branding settings, group and role membership, application entitlements, and current policy bindings.

### WS-Federation :ak-enterprise

TODO: @tanberry

WS-Federation added for compatibility with legacy software, we only support the SAML2 token type within WS-Federation providers.

> And mention that it doesn't work with Entra, because Entra needs a SAML 1.0 token

TODO: Link docs

### Endpoints and authentik agent :ak-enterprise

Endpoints now has a FleetDM connector integration. You can now pull in device facts and signals data from Fleet into authentik to implement Conditional Access rules.

TODO: Link docs currently being written by @dewi-tik

Local Device Login now works on Linux too and also supports webauthn/FIDO2.

### Certificate builder

authentik's certificate builder now supports ED25519 and ED448 certificate generation.

### Documentation page: First steps

We now have a tutorial for your [First steps](../../install-config/first-steps/index.mdx) after installing authentik! This document walks you through adding a new application and provider, then adding your first user, with Tips to explain more complex concepts. Best practices and troubleshooting tips are also included.

### πthon

authentik now uses [Python 3.14](https://docs.python.org/3/whatsnew/3.14.html) under the hood. This means absolutely nothing as we use none of its features, but it has a cool name.

## New integration guides

An integration is how authentik connects to third-party applications, directories, and other identity providers. The following integration guides were recently added. A big thanks to our contributors!

- [Arcane](https://integrations.goauthentik.io/hypervisors-orchestrators/arcane/)

- [Datadog](https://integrations.goauthentik.io/monitoring/datadog/) (Thanks to [@dominic-r](https://github.com/dominic-r)!)

- [Elastic Cloud](https://integrations.goauthentik.io/platforms/elastic-cloud/) (Thanks to [@dominic-r](https://github.com/dominic-r)!)

## Upgrading

This release does not introduce any new requirements. You can follow the upgrade instructions below; for more detailed information about upgrading authentik, refer to our [Upgrade documentation](../../install-config/upgrade.mdx).

:::warning
When you upgrade, be aware that the version of the authentik instance and of any outposts must be the same. We recommended that you always upgrade any outposts at the same time you upgrade your authentik instance.
:::

### Docker Compose

To upgrade, download the new docker-compose file and update the Docker stack with the new version, using these commands:

```shell
wget -O docker-compose.yml https://goauthentik.io/version/2026.2/docker-compose.yml
docker compose up -d
```

The `-O` flag retains the downloaded file's name, overwriting any existing local file with the same name.

### Kubernetes

Upgrade the Helm Chart to the new version, using the following commands:

```shell
helm repo update
helm upgrade authentik authentik/authentik -f values.yaml --version ^2026.2
```

## Minor changes/fixes

<!-- _Insert the output of `make gen-changelog` here_ -->

## API Changes

<!-- _Insert output of `make gen-diff` here_ -->
