---
title: Release 2025.6
slug: "/releases/2025.6"
---

## Highlights

- **mTLS Stage**: :ak-enterprise The Mutual TLS stage provides support for mTLS, a standard protocol that uses certificates for mutual authentication between a client and a server.

- **Email verification compatibility with link scanners**: We have improved compatibility for environments with automated scanning software that inadvertently invalidated one-time links sent by authentik.

- **LDAP source sync forward deletions**: This option synchronizes the deletion of users (those created by LDAP sources) in authentik when they are removed in the LDAP source.

## Breaking changes

- **Helm chart dependencies upgrades**:

    - The PostgreSQL chart has been updated to version 16.7.4. The PostgreSQL image is no longer pinned in authentik's default values and has been upgraded from version 15 to 17. Follow our [PostgreSQL upgrade instructions](../../troubleshooting/postgres/upgrade_kubernetes.md) to update to the latest PostgreSQL version.
    - The Redis chart has been updated to version 21.1.6. There are no breaking changes and Redis has been upgraded from version 7 to 8.

- **Deprecated and frozen `:latest` container image tag after 2025.2**

    Using the `:latest` tag with container images is not recommended as it can lead to unintentional updates and potentially broken setups.

    The tag will not be removed, however it will also not be updated past 2025.2.

    We strongly recommended the use of a specific version tag for authentik instances' container images, such as `:2025.6`.

- **CSS**: We’ve made some improvements to our theming system. If your authentik instance uses custom CSS, you may need to review flow and user interfaces for any visual changes.

## New features and improvements

- **mTLS stage**: :ak-enterprise The Mutual TLS stage enables authentik to use client certificates to enroll and authenticate users. These certificates can be local to the device or available via PIV Smart Cards, Yubikeys, etc. For environments where certificates are already rolled out, this can make authentication a lot more seamless. Refer to our [technical documentation](../add-secure-apps/flows-stages/stages/mtls/) for more information.
- **Email verification compatibility with link scanners**: We have improved compatibility for environments with automated scanning software that inadvertently invalidated one-time links sent by authentik.
- **LDAP source sync forward deletions**: With this option, when users that were created in authentik via LDAP sources are removed in the LDAP source they are also removed from authentik. For more information refer to our [LDAP source documentation](../users-sources/sources/protocols/ldap/).
- **Provider sync performance**: We have implemented parallel scheduling for outgoing syncs to provide faster synchronization.
- **Branding**: Custom branding should now be more consistent on initial load, without flickering.

## New integration guides

An integration is a how authentik connects to third-party applications, directories, and other identity providers. The following integration guides were recently added.

TODO

## Upgrading

This release does not introduce any new requirements. You can follow the upgrade instructions below; for more detailed information about upgrading authentik, refer to our [Upgrade documentation](../../install-config/upgrade.mdx).

:::warning
When you upgrade, be aware that the version of the authentik instance and of any outposts must be the same. We recommended that you always upgrade any outposts at the same time you upgrade your authentik instance.
:::

### Docker Compose

To upgrade, download the new docker-compose file and update the Docker stack with the new version, using these commands:

```shell
wget -O docker-compose.yml https://goauthentik.io/version/2025.6/docker-compose.yml
docker compose up -d
```

The `-O` flag retains the downloaded file's name, overwriting any existing local file with the same name.

### Kubernetes

Upgrade the Helm Chart to the new version, using the following commands:

```shell
helm repo update
helm upgrade authentik authentik/authentik -f values.yaml --version ^2025.6
```

## Minor changes/fixes

TODO
