---
title: Release 2025.8
slug: "/releases/2025.8"
---

:::::note
2025.8 has not been released yet! We're publishing these release notes as a preview of what's to come, and for our awesome beta testers trying out release candidates.

To try out the release candidate, replace your Docker image tag with the latest release candidate number, such as 2025.8.0-rc1. You can find the latest one in [the latest releases on GitHub](https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/releases). If you don't find any, it means we haven't released one yet.
:::::

## Breaking changes

### Worker rework

Upgrade instructions:

- upgrade the authentik server first
- inspect the celery task queue to check that all of them are done:
    - `bash -c 'DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=authentik.root.settings celery -A authentik.root.celery inspect active'`
    - `bash -c 'DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=authentik.root.settings celery -A authentik.root.celery inspect scheduled'`
    - `bash -c 'DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=authentik.root.settings celery -A authentik.root.celery inspect reserved'`
- once no more tasks, upgrade the worker
- ???
- profit

### Renamed/removed settings

The `AUTHENTIK_WORKER__CONCURRENCY` setting has been renamed `AUTHENTIK_WORKER__PROCESSES`. The old setting is still available as an alias and will be removed in a future release.

The following settings have been removed and no longer have an effect:

- `AUTHENTIK_BROKER__URL`
- `AUTHENTIK_BROKER__TRANSPORT_OPTIONS`
- `AUTHENTIK_RESULT_BACKEND__URL`

### Renamed/removed metrics

The `authentik_admin_workers` metric has been renamed `authentik_tasks_workers`.

The following metrics have been removed:

- `authentik_system_tasks`
- `authentik_system_tasks_time_seconds`
- `authentik_system_tasks_status`

Instead, the following metrics are now available:

- `authentik_tasks_total`
- `authentik_tasks_errors_total`
- `authentik_tasks_retries_total`
- `authentik_tasks_rejected_total`
- `authentik_tasks_inprogress`
- `authentik_tasks_delayed_inprogress`
- `authentik_tasks_duration_miliseconds`

## New features

## Upgrading

This release does not introduce any new requirements. You can follow the upgrade instructions below; for more detailed information about upgrading authentik, refer to our [Upgrade documentation](../../install-config/upgrade.mdx).

:::warning
When you upgrade, be aware that the version of the authentik instance and of any outposts must be the same. We recommended that you always upgrade any outposts at the same time you upgrade your authentik instance.
:::

### Docker Compose

To upgrade, download the new Docker Compose file and update the Docker stack with the new version, using these commands:

```shell
wget -O docker-compose.yml https://goauthentik.io/version/2025.8/docker-compose.yml
docker compose up -d
```

The `-O` flag retains the downloaded file's name, overwriting any existing local file with the same name.

### Kubernetes

Upgrade the Helm Chart to the new version, using the following commands:

```shell
helm repo update
helm upgrade authentik authentik/authentik -f values.yaml --version ^2025.8
```

## Minor changes/fixes

<!-- _Insert the output of `make gen-changelog` here_ -->

## API Changes

<!-- _Insert output of `make gen-diff` here_ -->
