website/integrations/services/tautulli/index.md, before:

---
title: Integrate with Tautulli
sidebar_label: Tautulli
---

# Integrate with Tautulli

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Tautulli

> Tautulli is a 3rd party application that you can run alongside your Plex Media Server to monitor activity and track various statistics. Most importantly, these statistics include what has been watched, who watched it, when and where they watched it, and how it was watched. The only thing missing is "why they watched it", but who am I to question your 42 plays of Frozen. All statistics are presented in a nice and clean interface with many tables and graphs, which makes it easy to brag about your server to everyone else.
>
> -- https://tautulli.com/

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `tautulli.company` is the FQDN of the Tautulli installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

## authentik Setup

Because Tautulli requires valid HTTP Basic credentials, you must save your HTTP Basic Credentials in authentik. The recommended way to do this is to create a Group. Name the group "Tautulli Users", for example. For this group, add the following attributes:

```yaml
tautulli_user: username
tautulli_password: password
```

Add all Tautulli users to the Group. You should also create a Group Membership Policy to limit access to the application.

Create an application in authentik. Create a Proxy provider with the following parameters:

- Internal host

    If Tautulli is running in docker, and you're deploying the authentik proxy on the same host, set the value to `http://tautulli:3579`, where tautulli is the name of your container.

    If Tautulli is running on a different server to where you are deploying the authentik proxy, set the value to `http://tautulli.company:3579`.

- External host

    Set this to the external URL you will be accessing Tautulli from.

Enable the `Set HTTP-Basic Authentication` option. Set and `HTTP-Basic Username` and `HTTP-Basic Password` to `tautulli_user` and `tautulli_password` respectively. These values can be chosen freely, `tautulli_` is just used as a prefix for clarity.

## Tautulli Setup

In Tautulli, navigate to Settings and enable the "Show Advanced" option. Navigate to "Web Interface" on the sidebar, and ensure the Option `Use Basic Authentication` is checked.

![](./tautulli.png)

Save the settings, and restart Tautulli if prompted.

Afterwards, you need to deploy an Outpost in front of Tautulli, as described [here](../sonarr/)

Commit message:

website/integrations-all: add default values change warning (#12777)
* website/integrations-all: add default values change warning

* website/integrations-all: update message

* Update website/integrations/services/gitea/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/gitea/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/pgadmin/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/hashicorp-cloud/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/hashicorp-vault/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/oracle-cloud/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/hashicorp-vault/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/pgadmin/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/proxmox-ve/index.md

Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>

* Update website/integrations/services/zammad/index.md

Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>

* Update website/integrations/services/writefreely/index.md

Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>

---------

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>
Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>
Co-authored-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

website/integrations/services/tautulli/index.md, after:

---
title: Integrate with Tautulli
sidebar_label: Tautulli
---

# Integrate with Tautulli

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Tautulli

> Tautulli is a 3rd party application that you can run alongside your Plex Media Server to monitor activity and track various statistics. Most importantly, these statistics include what has been watched, who watched it, when and where they watched it, and how it was watched. The only thing missing is "why they watched it", but who am I to question your 42 plays of Frozen. All statistics are presented in a nice and clean interface with many tables and graphs, which makes it easy to brag about your server to everyone else.
>
> -- https://tautulli.com/

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `tautulli.company` is the FQDN of the Tautulli installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that you need to change from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

## authentik Setup

Because Tautulli requires valid HTTP Basic credentials, you must save your HTTP Basic Credentials in authentik. The recommended way to do this is to create a Group. Name the group "Tautulli Users", for example. For this group, add the following attributes:

```yaml
tautulli_user: username
tautulli_password: password
```

Add all Tautulli users to the Group. You should also create a Group Membership Policy to limit access to the application.

Create an application in authentik. Create a Proxy provider with the following parameters:

- Internal host

    If Tautulli is running in docker, and you're deploying the authentik proxy on the same host, set the value to `http://tautulli:3579`, where tautulli is the name of your container.

    If Tautulli is running on a different server to where you are deploying the authentik proxy, set the value to `http://tautulli.company:3579`.

- External host

    Set this to the external URL you will be accessing Tautulli from.

Enable the `Set HTTP-Basic Authentication` option. Set and `HTTP-Basic Username` and `HTTP-Basic Password` to `tautulli_user` and `tautulli_password` respectively. These values can be chosen freely, `tautulli_` is just used as a prefix for clarity.

## Tautulli Setup

In Tautulli, navigate to Settings and enable the "Show Advanced" option. Navigate to "Web Interface" on the sidebar, and ensure the Option `Use Basic Authentication` is checked.

![](./tautulli.png)

Save the settings, and restart Tautulli if prompted.

Afterwards, you need to deploy an Outpost in front of Tautulli, as described [here](../sonarr/)
