---
title: Release 2022.6
slug: "2022.6"
---

## New features

-   Added OIDC well-known and JWKS URL in OAuth Source

    These fields can be used to automatically configure OAuth Sources based on the [OpenID Connect Discovery Spec](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html). Additionally, you can manually define a JWKS URL or raw JWKS data, and this can be used for Machine-to-machine authentication for OAuth2 Providers.

-   Notifications are no longer created by default

    Instead of creating a Notification with each transport, there is now a new Transport mode called "Local", which locally creates the Notifications. This also adds the ability to customize the notification using a mapping.

-   MFA Validation threshold has been migrated to signed cookies

    Last MFA validation is now saved in a signed cookie, which changes the behavior so that only the current browser is affected by MFA validation, and an attacker cannot exploit the fact that a user has recently authenticated with MFA.

-   Verification-only SMS Devices

    SMS authenticator stages can now be configured to hash the phone number. This is useful if you want to require your users to configure and confirm their phone numbers, without saving them in a readable-format.

-   The LDAP outpost would incorrectly return `groupOfUniqueNames` as a group class when the members where returned in a manner like `groupOfNames` requires. `groupOfNames` has been added as an objectClass for LDAP Groups, and `groupOfUniqueNames` will be removed in the next version.

-   Preview support for forward auth when using Envoy

## Minor changes/fixes

## Upgrading

This release does not introduce any new requirements.

### docker-compose

Download the docker-compose file for 2022.6 from [here](https://goauthentik.io/version/2022.6/docker-compose.yml). Afterwards, simply run `docker-compose up -d`.

### Kubernetes

Update your values to use the new images:

```yaml
image:
    repository: ghcr.io/goauthentik/server
    tag: 2022.6.1
```
