---
title: Release 2021.9
slug: "2021.9"
---

## Headline Changes

- New proxy

    The proxy outpost has been rewritten from scratch. This replaces the old proxy, which was based on oauth2_proxy. The new proxy allows us a much greater degree of flexibility, is much lighter and reports errors better.

    When using a managed outpost, authentik will automatically upgrade to the new proxy outpost. The embedded outpost also uses the new proxy.

    authentik also now deploys ServiceMonitor CRDs in your Kubernetes cluster (when possibly), to record the metrics of the outposts.

    If you're using a manually deployed outpost, keep in mind that the ports change to 9000 and 9443 instead of 4180 and 4443

- New metrics

    This version introduces new and simplified Prometheus metrics. There is a new common monitoring port across the server and all outposts, 9300. This port requires no authentication, making it easier to configure.

    For the core application, this endpoint contains metrics for both authentik and the inbuilt outpost.

## Minor changes

- *: use common user agent for all outgoing requests
- admin: migrate to new update check, add option to disable update check
- api: add additional filters for ldap and proxy providers
- core: optimise groups api by removing member superuser status
- core: remove ?v from static files
- events: add mark_all_seen
- events: allow setting a mapping for webhook transport to customise request payloads
- internal: fix font loading errors on safari
- lifecycle: fix worker startup error when docker socket's group is not called docker
- outpost: fix spans being sent without parent context
- outpost: update global outpost config on refresh
- outposts: add expected outpost replica count to metrics
- outposts/controllers: re-create service when mismatched ports to prevent errors
- outposts/controllers/kubernetes: don't create service monitor for embedded outpost
- outposts/ldap: improve logging of client IPs
- policies/password: fix symbols not being checked correctly
- root: include authentik version in backup naming
- root: show location header in logs when redirecting
- sources/oauth: prevent potentially confidential data from being logged
- stages/authenticator_duo: add API to "import" devices from duo
- stages/identification: fix empty user_fields query returning first user
- tenants: optimise db queries in middleware
- web: allow duplicate messages
- web: ignore network error
- web/admin: fix notification clear all not triggering render
- web/admin: fix user selection in token form
- web/admin: increase default expiry for refresh tokens
- web/admin: show applications instead of providers in outpost form
- web/flows: fix display error when using IdentificationStage without input fields

## Fixed in 2021.9.1-rc2

- core: fix token expiry for service accounts being only 30 minutes
- outposts: add consistent name and type to metrics
- outposts/proxy: remove deprecated rs256
- policies: improve error handling when using bindings without policy
- providers/saml: improved error handling
- stages/email: don't crash when testing stage does not exist
- web: update background image

## Upgrading

This release does not introduce any new requirements.

### docker-compose

Download the docker-compose file for 2021.9 from [here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/goauthentik/authentik/version-2021.9/docker-compose.yml). Afterwards, simply run `docker-compose up -d`.

### Kubernetes

Update your values to use the new images:

```yaml
image:
  repository: ghcr.io/goauthentik/server
  tag: 2021.9.1
```
