website/integrations/services/rustdesk-pro/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Integrate with RustDesk Server Pro
sidebar_label: RustDesk Server Pro
---

# Integrate with RustDesk Server Pro

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is RustDesk Server Pro?

> RustDesk Server Pro is a premium self-hosted solution for managing remote desktop connections securely and efficiently.
> It offers enhanced performance, advanced security features, and customization options like branding to meet professional needs.
> Ideal for businesses, it provides full control over data while ensuring scalable and reliable remote access.
>
> -- https://rustdesk.com/

## Preparation

This guide uses the following placeholders:

- `rustdesk.company` is the FQDN of the RustDesk Server Pro installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that you need to change from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

## authentik configuration

1. In the authentik Admin interface, navigate to **Applications** -> **Applications**.
2. Use the wizard to create a new application and provider. During this process:
    - Note the **Client ID**, **Client Secret**, and **slug** values for later use.
    - Set the redirect URI to https://_rustdesk.company_/api/oidc/callback.
    - Select any available signing key.

## RustDesk Server Pro configuration

1. Sign in to RustDesk Server Pro using a browser.

2. In the left menu, select **Settings** and then **OIDC**.

3. Click **+ New Auth Provider**.

4. In the popup window, select **custom** as the **Auth Type** and click **OK**.

5. Configure the following values using information from the authentik provider:
    - **Name**: _SSO-Login_
    - **Client ID**: _client-id_
    - **Client Secret**: _client-secret_
    - **Issuer**: https://_authentik.company_/application/o/_slug_/
    - **Authorization Endpoint**: https://_authentik.company_/application/o/authorize/
    - **Token Endpoint**: https://_authentik.company_/application/o/token/
    - **Userinfo Endpoint**: https://_authentik.company_/application/o/userinfo/
    - **JWKS Endpoint**: https://_authentik.company_/application/o/_slug_/jwks/

:::info
Users are created automatically on login. Permissions must be assigned by an administrator after user creation.
:::

## Test the Login

- Open a browser and navigate to https://_rustdesk.company_.
- Click **Continue with SSO-Login**.
- You should be redirected to authentik (with the login flows you configured). After logging in, authentik will redirect you back to https://_rustdesk.company_.
- If you are redirected back to https://_rustdesk.company_ and can read the username in the top right corner, the setup was successful.

Commit message:

website/integrations: Update to Wizard and Styling Guide (#12919)
* update to Wizard and Styling Guide

* Ready for PR

* remove changes on actual budget 

https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/pull/12716

Signed-off-by: NiceDevil <17103076+nicedevil007@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: NiceDevil <17103076+nicedevil007@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: nicedevil007 <nicedevil007@users.noreply.github.com>

website/integrations/services/rustdesk-pro/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Integrate with RustDesk Server Pro
sidebar_label: RustDesk Server Pro
---

# Integrate with RustDesk Server Pro

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is RustDesk Server Pro?

> RustDesk Server Pro is a premium self-hosted solution for managing remote desktop connections securely and efficiently.
> It offers enhanced performance, advanced security features, and customization options like branding to meet professional needs.
> Ideal for businesses, it provides full control over data while ensuring scalable and reliable remote access.
>
> -- https://rustdesk.com/
>
> This guide explains how to configure Rustdesk Server Pro to use authentik as the OAuth provider for logging in to the Web GUI.

## Preparation

This guide uses the following placeholders:

- `rustdesk.company` is the FQDN of the RustDesk Server Pro installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that you need to change from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

## authentik configuration

[Create](https://docs.goauthentik.io/docs/add-secure-apps/applications/manage_apps#add-new-applications) an OAuth2/OpenID provider and an application in authentik. Use the following parameters for the OAuth2/OpenID provider:

1. In the authentik Admin interface, navigate to **Applications** -> **Applications**.
2. Use the wizard to create a new application and provider. During this process:
    - Note the **Client ID**, **Client Secret**, and **slug** values for later use.
    - Select implicit or explicit authorization flow as desired.
    - Set the redirect URI to <kbd>https://<em>rustdesk.company</em>/api/oidc/callback</kbd>.
    - Select any available signing key.

## RustDesk Server Pro configuration

1. Sign in to RustDesk Server Pro using a browser.
2. In the left menu, select **Settings** and then **OIDC**.
3. Click **+ New Auth Provider**.
4. In the popup window, select **custom** as the **Auth Type** and click **OK**.
5. Configure the following values using information from the authentik provider:
    - Set **Name** to `authentik`
    - Set **Client ID** to the Client ID copied from authentik.
    - Set **Client secret** to the Client Secret copied from authentik.
    - Set **Issuer** to <kbd>https://<em>authentik.company</em>/application/o/<em>slug</em>/</kbd>
    - Set **Authorization Endpoint** to <kbd>https://<em>authentik.company</em>/application/o/authorize/</kbd>
    - Set **Token Endpoint** to <kbd>https://<em>authentik.company</em>/application/o/token/</kbd>
    - Set **Userinfo Endpoint** to <kbd>https://<em>authentik.company</em>/application/o/userinfo/</kbd>
    - Set **JWKS Endpoint** to <kbd>https://<em>authentik.company</em>/application/o/<em>slug</em>/jwks/</kbd>

:::info
Users are created automatically on login. Permissions must be assigned by an administrator after user creation.
:::

## Test the Login

- Open a browser and navigate to <kbd>https://<em>rustdesk.company</em></kbd>.
- Click **Continue with authentik**.
- You should be redirected to authentik (with the login flows you configured). After logging in, authentik will redirect you back to <kbd>https://<em>rustdesk.company</em></kbd>.
- If you are redirected back to <kbd>https://<em>rustdesk.company</em></kbd> and can read the username in the top right corner, the setup was successful.
