website/integrations/services/jellyfin/index.md, before:

---
title: Integrate with Jellyfin
sidebar_label: Jellyfin
---

# Jellyfin

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Jellyfin

> Jellyfin is a free and open source media management and streaming platform for movies, TV shows, and music.
>
> -- https://jellyfin.org

:::note
Jellyfin does not have any native external authentication support as of the writing of this page.
:::

:::note
Currently, there are two plugins for Jellyfin that provide external authentication, an OIDC plugin and an LDAP plugin.
:::

:::caution
An LDAP outpost must be deployed to use the Jellyfin LDAP plugin
:::

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `jellyfin.company` is the FQDN of the Jellyfin installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.
- `ldap.company` the FQDN of the LDAP outpost.
- `dc=company,dc=com` the Base DN of the LDAP outpost.
- `ldap_bind_user` the username of the desired LDAP Bind User

## LDAP Configuration

### authentik Configuration

No additional authentik configuration needs to be configured. Follow the LDAP outpost instructions to create an LDAP outpost and configure access via the outpost

### Jellyfin configuration

1. If you don't have one already, create an LDAP bind user before starting these steps.
    - Ideally, this user doesn't have any permissions other than the ability to view other users. However, some functions do require an account with permissions.
    - This user must be part of the group that is specified in the "Search group" in the LDAP outpost.
2. Navigate to your Jellyfin installation and log in with the admin account or currently configured local admin.
3. Open the **Administrator dashboard** and go to the **Plugins** section.
4. Click **Catalog** at the top of the page, and locate the "LDAP Authentication Plugin"
5. Install the plugin. You may need to restart Jellyfin to finish installation.
6. Once finished, navigate back to the plugins section of the admin dashboard, click the 3 dots on the "LDAP-Auth Plugin" card, and click settings.
7. Configure the LDAP Settings as follows:
    - `LDAP Server`: `ldap.company`
    - `LDAP Port`: 636
    - `Secure LDAP`: **Checked**
    - `StartTLS`: Unchecked
    - `Skip SSL/TLS Verification`:
        - If using a certificate issued by a certificate authority, Jellyfin trusts, leave this unchecked.
        - If you're using a self-signed certificate, check this box.
    - `Allow password change`: Unchecked
        - Since authentik already has a frontend for password resets, it's not necessary to include this in Jellyfin, especially since it requires bind user to have privileges.
    - `Password Reset URL`: Empty
    - `LDAP Bind User`: Set this to a user you want to bind to in authentik. By default, the path will be `ou=users,dc=company,dc=com` so the LDAP Bind user will be `cn=ldap_bind_user,ou=users,dc=company,dc=com`.
    - `LDAP Bind User Password`: The Password of the user. If using a Service account, this is the token.
    - `LDAP Base DN for Searches`: the base DN for LDAP queries. To query all users, set this to `dc=company,dc=com`.
        - You can specify an OU if you divide your users up into different OUs and only want to query a specific OU.

At this point, click **Save and Test LDAP Server Settings**. If the settings are correct, you will see:
`Connect(Success); Bind(Success); Base Search (Found XY Entities)`

- `LDAP User Filter`: This is used to a user filter on what users are allowed to login. **This must be set**
    - To allow all users: `(objectClass=user)`
    - To only allow users in a specific group: `(memberOf=cn=jellyfin_users,ou=groups,dc=company,dc=com)`
    - Good Docs on LDAP Filters: [atlassian.com](https://confluence.atlassian.com/kb/how-to-write-ldap-search-filters-792496933.html)
- `LDAP Admin Base DN`: All the users in this DN are automatically set as admins.
    - This can be left blank. Admins can be set manually outside this filter
- `LDAP Admin Filter`: Similar to the user filter, but every matched user is set as admin.
    - This can be left blank. Admins can be set manually outside this filter

At this point, click **Save and Test LDAP Filter Settings**. If the settings are correct, you will see:
`Found X user(s), Y admin(s)`

- `LDAP Attributes`: `uid, cn, mail, displayName`
- `Enable case Insensitive Username`: **Checked**

At this point, enter a username and click **Save Search Attribute Settings and Query User**. If the settings are correct, you will see:
`Found User: cn=test,ou=users,dc=company,dc=com`

- `Enabled User Creation`: **Checked**
- `LDAP Name Attribute`: `cn`
- `LDAP Password Attribute`: `userPassword`
- `Library Access`: Set this according to desired library access

1. Click "Save"
2. Logout, and login with a LDAP user. Username **must** be used, logging in with email will not work.

## OIDC Configuration

### authentik Configuration

**Provider Settings**

In authentik under **Providers**, create an OAuth2/OpenID Provider with these settings:

- Name: `jellyfin`
- Redirect URI: `https://jellyfin.company/sso/OID/redirect/authentik`

Everything else is up to you, just make sure to grab the client ID and the client secret!

:::note
The last part of the URI is the name you use when making the provider in Jellyfin so make sure they are the same.
:::

**Application Settings**

Create an application that uses `jellyfin` provider. Optionally apply access restrictions to the application.

Set the launch URL to `https://jellyfin.company/sso/OID/start/authentik`

### Jellyfin Configuration

1. Log in to Jellyfin with an admin account and navigate to the **Admin Dashboard** by selecting your profile icon in the top right, then clicking **Dashboard**.
2. Go to **Dashboard > Plugins > Catalog**.
3. Click the gear icon in the top left, then click **+** to add a new repository. Use the following URL and name it "SSO-Auth":

```
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/9p4/jellyfin-plugin-sso/manifest-release/manifest.json
```

4. Click the **Catalog** tab on top and install the SSO-Auth with the most recent version.
5. Restart the Jellyfin server.
6. Go back to the plugin tab.
7. Click the SSO-Auth plugin.
8. Fill out the Add / Update Provider Configuration:

    - Name of OID Provider: `authentik`
    - OID Endpoint: `https://authentik.company/application/o/jellyfin/.well-known/openid-configuration`
    - OpenID Client ID: ClientID from provider
    - OID Secret: Client Secret from provider
    - Enabled: **CHECKED**
    - Enable Authorization by Plugin: **CHECKED**

9. If you want to use the role claim then also fill out these:

    - Roles: roles to look for when authorizing access (should be done through authentik instead)
    - Admin Roles: roles to look for when giving admin privilege
    - Role Claim: `groups`

10. Hit **Save** at the bottom.
11. On the left side now click the **General** under dashboard and go to **Branding**.
12. In the login disclaimer put this code and making sure to change the url at the top:

```
<form action="https://jellyfin.company/sso/OID/start/authentik">
  <button class="raised block emby-button button-submit">
    Sign in with SSO
  </button>
</form>
```

13. In the Custom CSS code also add this:

```
a.raised.emby-button {
    padding:0.9em 1em;
    color: inherit !important;
}

.disclaimerContainer{
    display: block;
}
```

14. Click **Save** at the bottom & restart the server.
15. When you are signed out you should now see a **Sign in with SSO** button.

:::note
If you have problems check your logs which are under the **Administration** -> **Dashboard** then "logs" and will be near the bottom (most likely) with `Jellyfin.Plugin.SSO_Auth.` as the start of the lines you are looking for.
:::

Commit message:

website/integrations-all: add default values change warning

website/integrations/services/jellyfin/index.md, after:

---
title: Integrate with Jellyfin
sidebar_label: Jellyfin
---

# Jellyfin

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Jellyfin

> Jellyfin is a free and open source media management and streaming platform for movies, TV shows, and music.
>
> -- https://jellyfin.org

:::note
Jellyfin does not have any native external authentication support as of the writing of this page.
:::

:::note
Currently, there are two plugins for Jellyfin that provide external authentication, an OIDC plugin and an LDAP plugin.
:::

:::caution
An LDAP outpost must be deployed to use the Jellyfin LDAP plugin
:::

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `jellyfin.company` is the FQDN of the Jellyfin installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.
- `ldap.company` the FQDN of the LDAP outpost.
- `dc=company,dc=com` the Base DN of the LDAP outpost.
- `ldap_bind_user` the username of the desired LDAP Bind User

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that have been changed from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

## LDAP Configuration

### authentik Configuration

No additional authentik configuration needs to be configured. Follow the LDAP outpost instructions to create an LDAP outpost and configure access via the outpost

### Jellyfin configuration

1. If you don't have one already, create an LDAP bind user before starting these steps.
    - Ideally, this user doesn't have any permissions other than the ability to view other users. However, some functions do require an account with permissions.
    - This user must be part of the group that is specified in the "Search group" in the LDAP outpost.
2. Navigate to your Jellyfin installation and log in with the admin account or currently configured local admin.
3. Open the **Administrator dashboard** and go to the **Plugins** section.
4. Click **Catalog** at the top of the page, and locate the "LDAP Authentication Plugin"
5. Install the plugin. You may need to restart Jellyfin to finish installation.
6. Once finished, navigate back to the plugins section of the admin dashboard, click the 3 dots on the "LDAP-Auth Plugin" card, and click settings.
7. Configure the LDAP Settings as follows:
    - `LDAP Server`: `ldap.company`
    - `LDAP Port`: 636
    - `Secure LDAP`: **Checked**
    - `StartTLS`: Unchecked
    - `Skip SSL/TLS Verification`:
        - If using a certificate issued by a certificate authority, Jellyfin trusts, leave this unchecked.
        - If you're using a self-signed certificate, check this box.
    - `Allow password change`: Unchecked
        - Since authentik already has a frontend for password resets, it's not necessary to include this in Jellyfin, especially since it requires bind user to have privileges.
    - `Password Reset URL`: Empty
    - `LDAP Bind User`: Set this to a user you want to bind to in authentik. By default, the path will be `ou=users,dc=company,dc=com` so the LDAP Bind user will be `cn=ldap_bind_user,ou=users,dc=company,dc=com`.
    - `LDAP Bind User Password`: The Password of the user. If using a Service account, this is the token.
    - `LDAP Base DN for Searches`: the base DN for LDAP queries. To query all users, set this to `dc=company,dc=com`.
        - You can specify an OU if you divide your users up into different OUs and only want to query a specific OU.

At this point, click **Save and Test LDAP Server Settings**. If the settings are correct, you will see:
`Connect(Success); Bind(Success); Base Search (Found XY Entities)`

- `LDAP User Filter`: This is used to a user filter on what users are allowed to login. **This must be set**
    - To allow all users: `(objectClass=user)`
    - To only allow users in a specific group: `(memberOf=cn=jellyfin_users,ou=groups,dc=company,dc=com)`
    - Good Docs on LDAP Filters: [atlassian.com](https://confluence.atlassian.com/kb/how-to-write-ldap-search-filters-792496933.html)
- `LDAP Admin Base DN`: All the users in this DN are automatically set as admins.
    - This can be left blank. Admins can be set manually outside this filter
- `LDAP Admin Filter`: Similar to the user filter, but every matched user is set as admin.
    - This can be left blank. Admins can be set manually outside this filter

At this point, click **Save and Test LDAP Filter Settings**. If the settings are correct, you will see:
`Found X user(s), Y admin(s)`

- `LDAP Attributes`: `uid, cn, mail, displayName`
- `Enable case Insensitive Username`: **Checked**

At this point, enter a username and click **Save Search Attribute Settings and Query User**. If the settings are correct, you will see:
`Found User: cn=test,ou=users,dc=company,dc=com`

- `Enabled User Creation`: **Checked**
- `LDAP Name Attribute`: `cn`
- `LDAP Password Attribute`: `userPassword`
- `Library Access`: Set this according to desired library access

1. Click "Save"
2. Logout, and login with a LDAP user. Username **must** be used, logging in with email will not work.

## OIDC Configuration

### authentik Configuration

**Provider Settings**

In authentik under **Providers**, create an OAuth2/OpenID Provider with these settings:

- Name: `jellyfin`
- Redirect URI: `https://jellyfin.company/sso/OID/redirect/authentik`

Everything else is up to you, just make sure to grab the client ID and the client secret!

:::note
The last part of the URI is the name you use when making the provider in Jellyfin so make sure they are the same.
:::

**Application Settings**

Create an application that uses `jellyfin` provider. Optionally apply access restrictions to the application.

Set the launch URL to `https://jellyfin.company/sso/OID/start/authentik`

### Jellyfin Configuration

1. Log in to Jellyfin with an admin account and navigate to the **Admin Dashboard** by selecting your profile icon in the top right, then clicking **Dashboard**.
2. Go to **Dashboard > Plugins > Catalog**.
3. Click the gear icon in the top left, then click **+** to add a new repository. Use the following URL and name it "SSO-Auth":

```
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/9p4/jellyfin-plugin-sso/manifest-release/manifest.json
```

4. Click the **Catalog** tab on top and install the SSO-Auth with the most recent version.
5. Restart the Jellyfin server.
6. Go back to the plugin tab.
7. Click the SSO-Auth plugin.
8. Fill out the Add / Update Provider Configuration:

    - Name of OID Provider: `authentik`
    - OID Endpoint: `https://authentik.company/application/o/jellyfin/.well-known/openid-configuration`
    - OpenID Client ID: ClientID from provider
    - OID Secret: Client Secret from provider
    - Enabled: **CHECKED**
    - Enable Authorization by Plugin: **CHECKED**

9. If you want to use the role claim then also fill out these:

    - Roles: roles to look for when authorizing access (should be done through authentik instead)
    - Admin Roles: roles to look for when giving admin privilege
    - Role Claim: `groups`

10. Hit **Save** at the bottom.
11. On the left side now click the **General** under dashboard and go to **Branding**.
12. In the login disclaimer put this code and making sure to change the url at the top:

```
<form action="https://jellyfin.company/sso/OID/start/authentik">
  <button class="raised block emby-button button-submit">
    Sign in with SSO
  </button>
</form>
```

13. In the Custom CSS code also add this:

```
a.raised.emby-button {
    padding:0.9em 1em;
    color: inherit !important;
}

.disclaimerContainer{
    display: block;
}
```

14. Click **Save** at the bottom & restart the server.
15. When you are signed out you should now see a **Sign in with SSO** button.

:::note
If you have problems check your logs which are under the **Administration** -> **Dashboard** then "logs" and will be near the bottom (most likely) with `Jellyfin.Plugin.SSO_Auth.` as the start of the lines you are looking for.
:::
