website/integrations/services/outline/index.md, before:

---
title: Integrate with Outline
sidebar_label: Outline
---

# Outline

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Outline

> Your team's knowledge base.
> Lost in a mess of Docs? Never quite sure who has access? Colleagues requesting the same information repeatedly in chat? It’s time to get your team’s knowledge organized.
>
> -- https://www.getoutline.com

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `outline.company` is the FQDN of the Outline installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

## authentik configuration

1. Create an OAuth2/OpenID provider with the following parameters:

- Client Type: `Confidential`
- Scopes: OpenID, Email and Profile
- Signing Key: Select any available key
- Redirect URIs: `https://outline.company/auth/oidc.callback`

2. Note the Client ID and Client Secret values.

## Outline configuration

You need to set the following `env` variables for Docker-based installations.

1. Set the following values:

```yaml
OIDC_CLIENT_ID=
OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET=
OIDC_AUTH_URI=https://authentik.company/application/o/authorize/
OIDC_TOKEN_URI=https://authentik.company/application/o/token/
OIDC_USERINFO_URI=https://authentik.company/application/o/userinfo/
OIDC_LOGOUT_URI=https://authentik.company/application/o/wiki/end-session/
OIDC_USERNAME_CLAIM=preferred_username
OIDC_DISPLAY_NAME=authentik
OIDC_SCOPES=openid profile email
```

Commit message:

website/integrations-all: add default values change warning

website/integrations/services/outline/index.md, after:

---
title: Integrate with Outline
sidebar_label: Outline
---

# Outline

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Outline

> Your team's knowledge base.
> Lost in a mess of Docs? Never quite sure who has access? Colleagues requesting the same information repeatedly in chat? It’s time to get your team’s knowledge organized.
>
> -- https://www.getoutline.com

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `outline.company` is the FQDN of the Outline installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that have been changed from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

## authentik configuration

1. Create an OAuth2/OpenID provider with the following parameters:

- Client Type: `Confidential`
- Scopes: OpenID, Email and Profile
- Signing Key: Select any available key
- Redirect URIs: `https://outline.company/auth/oidc.callback`

2. Note the Client ID and Client Secret values.

## Outline configuration

You need to set the following `env` variables for Docker-based installations.

1. Set the following values:

```yaml
OIDC_CLIENT_ID=
OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET=
OIDC_AUTH_URI=https://authentik.company/application/o/authorize/
OIDC_TOKEN_URI=https://authentik.company/application/o/token/
OIDC_USERINFO_URI=https://authentik.company/application/o/userinfo/
OIDC_LOGOUT_URI=https://authentik.company/application/o/wiki/end-session/
OIDC_USERNAME_CLAIM=preferred_username
OIDC_DISPLAY_NAME=authentik
OIDC_SCOPES=openid profile email
```
