website/integrations/services/dokuwiki/index.md, before:

---
title: Integrate with DokuWiki
sidebar_label: DokuWiki
---

# DokuWiki

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is DokuWiki

From https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DokuWiki

> DokuWiki is a wiki application licensed under GPLv2 and written in the PHP programming language. It works on plain text files and thus does not need a database. Its syntax is similar to the one used by MediaWiki. It is often recommended as a more lightweight, easier to customize alternative to MediaWiki.

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `dokuwiki.company` is the FQDN of the DokiWiki installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

## DokuWiki configuration

In DokuWiki, navigate to the _Extension Manager_ section in the _Administration_ interface and install

- https://www.dokuwiki.org/plugin:oauth
- https://www.dokuwiki.org/plugin:oauthgeneric

Navigate to _Configuration Settings_ section in the _Administration_ interface and change _Oauth_ and _Oauthgeneric_ options:

For _Oauth_:

- Check the _plugin»oauth»register-on-auth_ option

For _Oauthgeneric_:

- plugin»oauthgeneric»key: The Application UID
- plugin»oauthgeneric»secret: The Application Secret
- plugin»oauthgeneric»authurl: https://authentik.company/application/o/authorize/
- plugin»oauthgeneric»tokenurl: https://authentik.company/application/o/token/
- plugin»oauthgeneric»userurl: https://authentik.company/application/o/userinfo/
- plugin»oauthgeneric»authmethod: Bearer Header
- plugin»oauthgeneric»scopes: email, openid, profile, offline_access
- plugin»oauthgeneric»needs-state: checked
- plugin»oauthgeneric»json-user: preferred_username
- plugin»oauthgeneric»json-name: name
- plugin»oauthgeneric»json-mail: email
- plugin»oauthgeneric»json-grps: groups

![](./dokuwiki_oauth_generic.png)

In the _Configuration Settings_ section in the _Administration_ interface navigate to _Authentication_ and activate _oauth_ in _Authentication backend_.

## authentik Configuration

### Provider

In authentik, under _Providers_, create an _OAuth2/OpenID Provider_ with these settings:

- Redirect URI: The _Callback URL / Redirect URI_ from _plugin»oauth»info_, usually `dokuwiki.company/doku.php`
- Signing Key: Select any available key

Note the _client ID_ and _client secret_, then save the provider. If you need to retrieve these values, you can do so by editing the provider.

To prevent users from needing to log in again as soon as the access token expires, include the _offline_access_ scope in both authentik and DokuWiki. This scope allows DokuWiki to use refresh tokens.

### Application

In authentik, create an application which uses this provider. Optionally apply access restrictions to the application using policy bindings.
Set the Launch URL to the _Callback URL / Redirect URI_ (`dokuwiki.company/doku.php`).

Commit message:

website/integrations-all: add default values change warning

website/integrations/services/dokuwiki/index.md, after:

---
title: Integrate with DokuWiki
sidebar_label: DokuWiki
---

# DokuWiki

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is DokuWiki

From https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DokuWiki

> DokuWiki is a wiki application licensed under GPLv2 and written in the PHP programming language. It works on plain text files and thus does not need a database. Its syntax is similar to the one used by MediaWiki. It is often recommended as a more lightweight, easier to customize alternative to MediaWiki.

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `dokuwiki.company` is the FQDN of the DokiWiki installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that have been changed from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

## DokuWiki configuration

In DokuWiki, navigate to the _Extension Manager_ section in the _Administration_ interface and install

- https://www.dokuwiki.org/plugin:oauth
- https://www.dokuwiki.org/plugin:oauthgeneric

Navigate to _Configuration Settings_ section in the _Administration_ interface and change _Oauth_ and _Oauthgeneric_ options:

For _Oauth_:

- Check the _plugin»oauth»register-on-auth_ option

For _Oauthgeneric_:

- plugin»oauthgeneric»key: The Application UID
- plugin»oauthgeneric»secret: The Application Secret
- plugin»oauthgeneric»authurl: https://authentik.company/application/o/authorize/
- plugin»oauthgeneric»tokenurl: https://authentik.company/application/o/token/
- plugin»oauthgeneric»userurl: https://authentik.company/application/o/userinfo/
- plugin»oauthgeneric»authmethod: Bearer Header
- plugin»oauthgeneric»scopes: email, openid, profile, offline_access
- plugin»oauthgeneric»needs-state: checked
- plugin»oauthgeneric»json-user: preferred_username
- plugin»oauthgeneric»json-name: name
- plugin»oauthgeneric»json-mail: email
- plugin»oauthgeneric»json-grps: groups

![](./dokuwiki_oauth_generic.png)

In the _Configuration Settings_ section in the _Administration_ interface navigate to _Authentication_ and activate _oauth_ in _Authentication backend_.

## authentik Configuration

### Provider

In authentik, under _Providers_, create an _OAuth2/OpenID Provider_ with these settings:

- Redirect URI: The _Callback URL / Redirect URI_ from _plugin»oauth»info_, usually `dokuwiki.company/doku.php`
- Signing Key: Select any available key

Note the _client ID_ and _client secret_, then save the provider. If you need to retrieve these values, you can do so by editing the provider.

To prevent users from needing to log in again as soon as the access token expires, include the _offline_access_ scope in both authentik and DokuWiki. This scope allows DokuWiki to use refresh tokens.

### Application

In authentik, create an application which uses this provider. Optionally apply access restrictions to the application using policy bindings.
Set the Launch URL to the _Callback URL / Redirect URI_ (`dokuwiki.company/doku.php`).
