---
title: Release 0.13 (passbook -> authentik)
slug: "/releases/0.13"
---

After a long back and forth, we've finally switched to a more permanent name. Whilst the upgrade is pretty much seamless, there are some things you have to change before upgrading.

# Headline changes

- New name (https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/pull/361)
- The web interface is now a semi-SPA Experience. This means that most operations are done through Asynchronous requests

    In this initial release, this brings features such as a refresh button, a generally better User experience due to shorter loading times
    and fewer visual context changes.

- The web interface now has a darkmode, which is enabled automatically based on your Operating system darkmode.
- Application Icons can now be uploaded directly to authentik, rather than just being loaded from a URL

## Smaller changes

- Add better support for Docker Service Connections with Certificates
- Fix application API not returning the same format as other APIs

## Upgrading

### docker-compose

Docker-compose users should download the latest docker-compose file from [here](https://goauthentik.io/version/0.13/docker-compose.yml).

:::caution
If you decided to rename the folder you're running the docker-compose file from, be aware that this will also change the name, that docker-compose will give the database volume. To mitigate this, either

- Keep the original directory name
- Move the directory and set `COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME` to the name of the old directory (see [here](https://docs.docker.com/compose/reference/envvars/#compose_project_name))
- Create a backup, rename the directory and restore from backup.
  :::

The only manual change you have to do is replace the `PASSBOOK_` prefix in your `.env` file, so `PASSBOOK_SECRET_KEY` gets changed to `AUTHENTIK_SECRET_KEY`.

Additionally, the database name and username have to be changed, so add this block to your `.env` file:

```shell
PG_USER=passbook
PG_DB=passbook
```

Afterwards, you can simply run `docker-compose up -d` and then the normal upgrade command of `docker-compose run --rm server migrate`.

### Kubernetes

The helm repository changes from passbook to authentik. To update your repository, execute these commands:

```shell
helm repo remove passbook
helm repo add authentik https://docker.beryju.org/chartrepo/authentik
```

:::note
If you've set any custom image names in your values file, make sure to change them to authentik before upgrading.
:::

Additionally, you need to change the database name that authentik uses, as the database name doesn't change. Add this snippet to your `values.yaml` file:

```yaml
postgresql:
    postgresqlDatabase: passbook
```

Afterwards you can upgrade as usual from the new repository:

```shell
helm upgrade authentik authentik/authentik --devel -f values.yaml
```

## Post-upgrade notes

- Some default values change, for example the SAML Provider's default issuer.

    This only makes a difference for newly created providers.

- Expression Policies variables change

    Anything prefixed with `pb_` changes to `ak_`, this change is done **automatically**
