website/integrations/services/wekan/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Integrate with Wekan
sidebar_label: Wekan
---

# Wekan

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Wekan

> Wekan is an open-source kanban board which allows a card-based task and to-do management.
>
> -- https://github.com/wekan/wekan/wiki

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `wekan.company` is the FQDN of the wekan installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

Create an application in authentik. Create an OAuth2/OpenID provider with the following parameters:

- Client Type: `Confidential`
- Scopes: OpenID, Email and Profile
- Signing Key: Select any available key
- Redirect URIs: `https://wekan.company/_oauth/oidc`

Note the Client ID and Client Secret values. Create an application, using the provider you've created above. Note the slug of the application you've created.

## Wekan

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

<Tabs
  defaultValue="docker"
  values={[
    {label: 'Docker', value: 'docker'},
    {label: 'Standalone', value: 'standalone'},
  ]}>
  <TabItem value="docker">
If your Wekan is running in docker, add the following environment variables for authentik

```yaml
environment: OAUTH2_ENABLED=true
    OAUTH2_LOGIN_STYLE=redirect
    OAUTH2_CLIENT_ID=<Client ID from above>
    OAUTH2_SERVER_URL=https://authentik.company
    OAUTH2_AUTH_ENDPOINT=/application/o/authorize/
    OAUTH2_USERINFO_ENDPOINT=/application/o/userinfo/
    OAUTH2_TOKEN_ENDPOINT=/application/o/token/
    OAUTH2_SECRET=<Client Secret from above>
    OAUTH2_ID_MAP=sub
    OAUTH2_USERNAME_MAP=email
    OAUTH2_FULLNAME_MAP=given_name
    OAUTH2_EMAIL_MAP=email
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="standalone">

edit `.env` and add the following:

```ini
     # authentik OAUTH Config
      OAUTH2_ENABLED='true'
      OAUTH2_LOGIN_STYLE='redirect'
      OAUTH2_CLIENT_ID='<Client ID from above>'
      OAUTH2_SERVER_URL='https://authentik.company'
      OAUTH2_AUTH_ENDPOINT='/application/o/authorize/'
      OAUTH2_USERINFO_ENDPOINT='/application/o/userinfo/'
      OAUTH2_TOKEN_ENDPOINT='/application/o/token/'
      OAUTH2_SECRET='<Client Secret from above>'
      OAUTH2_ID_MAP='sub'
      OAUTH2_USERNAME_MAP='email'
      OAUTH2_FULLNAME_MAP='given_name'
      OAUTH2_EMAIL_MAP='email'
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

website/integrations-all: add default values change warning

website/integrations/services/wekan/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Integrate with Wekan
sidebar_label: Wekan
---

# Wekan

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Wekan

> Wekan is an open-source kanban board which allows a card-based task and to-do management.
>
> -- https://github.com/wekan/wekan/wiki

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `wekan.company` is the FQDN of the wekan installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that have been changed from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

Create an application in authentik. Create an OAuth2/OpenID provider with the following parameters:

- Client Type: `Confidential`
- Scopes: OpenID, Email and Profile
- Signing Key: Select any available key
- Redirect URIs: `https://wekan.company/_oauth/oidc`

Note the Client ID and Client Secret values. Create an application, using the provider you've created above. Note the slug of the application you've created.

## Wekan

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

<Tabs
  defaultValue="docker"
  values={[
    {label: 'Docker', value: 'docker'},
    {label: 'Standalone', value: 'standalone'},
  ]}>
  <TabItem value="docker">
If your Wekan is running in docker, add the following environment variables for authentik

```yaml
environment: OAUTH2_ENABLED=true
    OAUTH2_LOGIN_STYLE=redirect
    OAUTH2_CLIENT_ID=<Client ID from above>
    OAUTH2_SERVER_URL=https://authentik.company
    OAUTH2_AUTH_ENDPOINT=/application/o/authorize/
    OAUTH2_USERINFO_ENDPOINT=/application/o/userinfo/
    OAUTH2_TOKEN_ENDPOINT=/application/o/token/
    OAUTH2_SECRET=<Client Secret from above>
    OAUTH2_ID_MAP=sub
    OAUTH2_USERNAME_MAP=email
    OAUTH2_FULLNAME_MAP=given_name
    OAUTH2_EMAIL_MAP=email
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="standalone">

edit `.env` and add the following:

```ini
     # authentik OAUTH Config
      OAUTH2_ENABLED='true'
      OAUTH2_LOGIN_STYLE='redirect'
      OAUTH2_CLIENT_ID='<Client ID from above>'
      OAUTH2_SERVER_URL='https://authentik.company'
      OAUTH2_AUTH_ENDPOINT='/application/o/authorize/'
      OAUTH2_USERINFO_ENDPOINT='/application/o/userinfo/'
      OAUTH2_TOKEN_ENDPOINT='/application/o/token/'
      OAUTH2_SECRET='<Client Secret from above>'
      OAUTH2_ID_MAP='sub'
      OAUTH2_USERNAME_MAP='email'
      OAUTH2_FULLNAME_MAP='given_name'
      OAUTH2_EMAIL_MAP='email'
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
