website/integrations/services/push-security/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Integrate with Push Security
sidebar_label: Push Security
support_level: community
---

## What is Push Security

> Push is a browser-based identity security platform that hardens and monitors your identity attack surface. Security teams can monitor and secure their entire identity attack surface (ISPM) and detect and block identity-based attacks (ITDR) such as advanced phishing techniques.
>
> -- https://pushsecurity.com/

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that you need to change from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

## authentik configuration

To support the integration of Push Security with authentik, you need to create property mappings and an application/provider pair in authentik.

### Create property mappings

Push Security requires a first and last name for each user. However, authentik provides the full name as a single string value. To address this, you need to create property mappings that can separate the full name into first and last names.

1. Log in to authentik as an admin, and open the authentik Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Customization** > **Property Mappings** and click **Create**.

    - **Select type**: select **SAML Provider Property Mapping** as the property mapping type.
    - **Configure the SAML Provider Property Mapping**:

        - **Name**: `givenname`
        - **SAML Attribute Name**: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/givenname`
        - **Expression**:

            ```python
            return request.user.name.rsplit(" ", 1)[0]
            ```

3. Click **Finish**.
4. Click **Create**.

    - **Select type**: select **SAML Provider Property Mapping** as the property mapping type.
    - **Configure the SAML Provider Property Mapping**:

        - **Name**: `familyname`
        - **SAML Attribute Name**: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/surname`
        - **Expression**:

            ```python
            return request.user.name.rsplit(" ", 1)[-1]
            ```

5. Click **Finish**.

### Create an application and provider in authentik

1. Log in to authentik as an admin, and open the authentik Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Applications** > **Applications** and click **Create with Provider** to create an application and provider pair. (Alternatively you can first create a provider separately, then create the application and connect it with the provider.)

    - **Application**: provide a descriptive name, an optional group for the type of application, the policy engine mode, and optional UI settings.
        - Take note of the application slug as it will be required later on.
    - **Choose a Provider type**: select **SAML Provider** as the provider type.
    - **Configure the Provider**: provide a name (or accept the auto-provided name), the authorization flow to use for this provider, and the following required configurations.
        - Temporarily set the **ACS URL** and **Audience** to `https://temp.temp`
        - Set the **Service Provider Binding** to `Post`.
        - Under **Advanced protocol settings**:
            - Set an available signing certificate.
            - **Property mappings**:
                - Under **Selected User Property Mappings**, add the `givenname` and `familyname` property mappings created in the previous section.

- **Configure Bindings** _(optional)_: you can create a [binding](/docs/add-secure-apps/flows-stages/bindings/) (policy, group, or user) to manage the listing and access to applications on a user's **My applications** page.

3. Click **Submit**.

### Download the signing certificate

1. Log into authentik as an admin, and open the authentik Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Applications** > **Providers** and click on the name of the newly created Push Security provider.
3. Click the **Download** button found under **Download signing certificate**. The contents of this certificate will be required in the next section.

## Push Security configuration

1. Log in to the Push Security admin console.
2. Navigate to **Settings** > **Organization**.
3. Under **SAML configuration** click **Setup**.
4. Click **Setup** or open the provided URL.
5. Click **Get Started**, select **Custom SAML**, and click **Next**.
6. Copy the **Single Sign-On URL** and **Service Provider Entity URL**. These values will be required in the next section.
7. Click **Next**.
8. Select **Manual** and set the **Single Sign-On Login URL** to `https://authentik.company/application/saml/<application-slug>/sso/binding/post/`
9. Click **Upload signing certificate**, then select the certificate that was downloaded from authentik.
10. _Optional_ under **Advanced Settings**, enable **Sign request**, and download the verification certificate. You will need to import the certificate into authentik, see the [authentik certificate documentation](../../../docs/sys-mgmt/certificates#external-certificates)
11. Click **Next**.
12. On the **Attribute Mapping** page, click **Next**.
13. Keep the Push Security **Test SSO** page open. You will need to return to this page after the next section.

## Reconfigure authentik provider

1. Log in to authentik as an admin, and open the authentik Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Applications** > **Providers**, then find the newly created Push Security provider and click its **Edit** icon.
3. Under **Protocol settgins**, set the following required configurations:
    - **ACS URL**: set the acs url to the copied `Single Sign-On URL` (e.g. `https://login.pushsecurity.com/login/callback?connection=saml-aaa...`).
    - **Audience**: set the audience to the copied `Service Provider Entity URL` (e.g. `urn:auth0:production-pushsecurity:saml-aaa...`).
    - _Optional_ add the verification certificate downloaded from Push Security by following t in the previous section
4. Click **Update**

## Push Security verification

1. Return to the Push Security **Test SSO** page.
2. Click **Test Connection** and you should be redirected to the authentik login screen.
3. Enter your authentik credentials and login.
4. If successful you will be redirected to Push Security and see a **Testing complete!** message.
5. On the **Test SSO** page, click **Enable Connection**.

## Resources

- [Push Security SAML SSO Documentation](https://pushsecurity.com/help/10123#start)

## Configuration verification

To confirm that authentik is properly configured with Push Security, navigate to the authentik dashboard, and click on the Push Security application. You should be redirected to the Push Security admin console.

Commit message:

Added note about login from push login URL, and added suggestions from Dominic

website/integrations/services/push-security/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Integrate with Push Security
sidebar_label: Push Security
support_level: community
---

## What is Push Security

> Push is a browser-based identity security platform that hardens and monitors your identity attack surface. Security teams can monitor and secure their entire identity attack surface (ISPM) and detect and block identity-based attacks (ITDR) such as advanced phishing techniques.
>
> -- https://pushsecurity.com/

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that you need to change from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

## authentik configuration

To support the integration of Push Security with authentik, you need to create property mappings and an application/provider pair in authentik.

### Create property mappings

Push Security requires a first and last name for each user. However, authentik provides the full name as a single string value. To address this, you need to create property mappings that can separate the full name into first and last names.

1. Log in to authentik as an admin, and open the authentik Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Customization** > **Property Mappings** and click **Create**.

    - **Select type**: select **SAML Provider Property Mapping** as the property mapping type.
    - **Configure the SAML Provider Property Mapping**:

        - **Name**: `givenname`
        - **SAML Attribute Name**: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/givenname`
        - **Expression**:

            ```python
            return request.user.name.rsplit(" ", 1)[0]
            ```

3. Click **Finish**.
4. Click **Create** to begin creating the second property mapping.

    - **Select type**: select **SAML Provider Property Mapping** as the property mapping type.
    - **Configure the SAML Provider Property Mapping**:

        - **Name**: `familyname`
        - **SAML Attribute Name**: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/surname`
        - **Expression**:

            ```python
            return request.user.name.rsplit(" ", 1)[-1]
            ```

5. Click **Finish**.

### Create an application and provider in authentik

1. Log in to authentik as an admin, and open the authentik Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Applications** > **Applications** and click **Create with Provider** to create an application and provider pair. (Alternatively you can first create a provider separately, then create the application and connect it with the provider.)

    - **Application**: provide a descriptive name, an optional group for the type of application, the policy engine mode, and optional UI settings.
        - Take note of the application slug as it will be required later on.
    - **Choose a Provider type**: select **SAML Provider** as the provider type.
    - **Configure the Provider**: provide a name (or accept the auto-provided name), the authorization flow to use for this provider, and the following required configurations.
        - Temporarily set the **ACS URL** and **Audience** to `https://temp.temp`
        - Set the **Service Provider Binding** to `Post`.
        - Under **Advanced protocol settings**:
            - Set an available signing certificate.
            - **Property mappings**:
                - Under **Selected User Property Mappings**, add the `givenname` and `familyname` property mappings created in the previous section.

- **Configure Bindings** _(optional)_: you can create a [binding](/docs/add-secure-apps/flows-stages/bindings/) (policy, group, or user) to manage the listing and access to applications on a user's **My applications** page.

3. Click **Submit**.

### Download the signing certificate

1. Log into authentik as an admin, and open the authentik Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Applications** > **Providers** and click on the name of the newly created Push Security provider.
3. Click the **Download** button found under **Download signing certificate**. The contents of this certificate will be required in the next section.

## Push Security configuration

1. Log in to the Push Security admin console.
2. Navigate to **Settings** > **Organization**, then under **SAML configuration**, click **Setup**.
3. Click **Get Started**, select **Custom SAML**, and click **Next**.
4. Copy the **Single Sign-On URL** and **Service Provider Entity URL**. These values will be required in the next section.
5. Click **Next**.
6. Select **Manual** and set the **Single Sign-On Login URL** to `https://authentik.company/application/saml/<application-slug>/sso/binding/post/`
7. Click **Upload signing certificate**, then select the certificate that was downloaded from authentik.
8. _Optional_ under **Advanced Settings**, enable **Sign request**, and download the verification certificate. You will need to import the certificate into authentik, see the [authentik certificate documentation](../../../docs/sys-mgmt/certificates#external-certificates)
9. Click **Next**.
10. On the **Attribute Mapping** page, click **Next**.
11. Keep the Push Security **Test SSO** page open. You will need to return to this page after the next section.

## Reconfigure authentik provider

1. Log in to authentik as an admin, and open the authentik Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Applications** > **Providers**, then find the newly created Push Security provider and click its **Edit** icon.
3. Under **Protocol settgins**, set the following required configurations:
    - **ACS URL**: set the acs url to the copied `Single Sign-On URL` (e.g. `https://login.pushsecurity.com/login/callback?connection=saml-aaa...`).
    - **Audience**: set the audience to the copied `Service Provider Entity URL` (e.g. `urn:auth0:production-pushsecurity:saml-aaa...`).
    - _Optional_ add the verification certificate downloaded from Push Security by following t in the previous section
4. Click **Update**

## Push Security verification

1. Return to the Push Security **Test SSO** page.
2. Click **Test Connection** and you should be redirected to the authentik login screen.
3. Enter your authentik credentials and login.
4. If successful you will be redirected to Push Security and see a **Testing complete!** message.
5. On the **Test SSO** page, click **Enable Connection**.

:::note
To enable users to enter their email on the Push Security login screen and be redirected to authentik, you will need to contact Push Security to enable the feature. This can be done from the Push Security admin console via **Settings** > **Organization** > **SAML Configuration**.
:::

## Resources

- [Push Security SAML SSO Documentation](https://pushsecurity.com/help/10123#start)

## Configuration verification

To confirm that authentik is properly configured with Push Security, navigate to the authentik dashboard, and click on the Push Security application. You should be redirected to the Push Security admin console.
