website/integrations/services/hoarder/index.md, before:

---
title: Integrate with Hoarder
sidebar_label: Hoarder
---

# Integrate with Hoarder

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Hoarder

> A self-hostable bookmark-everything app (links, notes and images) with AI-based automatic tagging and full-text search.
>
> -- https://hoarder.app/

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `hoarder.company` is the FQDN of the Hoarder installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

## authentik configuration

### Provider settings

In authentik, under **Applications** -> **Providers** of the **Admin interface**, create a new **OAuth2/OpenID Provider** with the desired settings.

- Name: `hoarder`
- Redirect URI: `https://hoarder.company/api/auth/callback/custom`

Everything else is up to you, just make sure to grab the client ID and the client secret!

### Application settings

In authentik, under **Applications** -> **Applications** of the **Admin interface**, create a new Application with the **Create** button that uses `hoarder` provider.
Optionally apply access restrictions to the application.

## Hoarder configuration

In Hoarder, you'll need to add these environment variables:

```sh
NEXTAUTH_URL=https://hoarder.company
OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=<Client ID from authentik>
OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=<Client secret from authentik>
OAUTH_WELLKNOWN_URL=https://authentik.company/application/o/hoarder/.well-known/openid-configuration
OAUTH_PROVIDER_NAME=authentik
OAUTH_ALLOW_DANGEROUS_EMAIL_ACCOUNT_LINKING=true
# Optional: You can add this if you only want to allow login with Authentik
# DISABLE_PASSWORD_AUTH=true
# Optional but highly recommended:
# DISABLE_SIGNUPS=true
```

Finally, restart the Hoarder server and test your configuration.

Commit message:

website/integrations-all: add default values change warning (#12777)
* website/integrations-all: add default values change warning

* website/integrations-all: update message

* Update website/integrations/services/gitea/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/gitea/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/pgadmin/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/hashicorp-cloud/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/hashicorp-vault/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/oracle-cloud/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/hashicorp-vault/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/pgadmin/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/proxmox-ve/index.md

Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>

* Update website/integrations/services/zammad/index.md

Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>

* Update website/integrations/services/writefreely/index.md

Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>

---------

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>
Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>
Co-authored-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

website/integrations/services/hoarder/index.md, after:

---
title: Integrate with Hoarder
sidebar_label: Hoarder
---

# Integrate with Hoarder

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Hoarder

> A self-hostable bookmark-everything app (links, notes and images) with AI-based automatic tagging and full-text search.
>
> -- https://hoarder.app/

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `hoarder.company` is the FQDN of the Hoarder installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that you need to change from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

## authentik configuration

### Provider settings

In authentik, under **Applications** -> **Providers** of the **Admin interface**, create a new **OAuth2/OpenID Provider** with the desired settings.

- Name: `hoarder`
- Redirect URI: `https://hoarder.company/api/auth/callback/custom`

Everything else is up to you, just make sure to grab the client ID and the client secret!

### Application settings

In authentik, under **Applications** -> **Applications** of the **Admin interface**, create a new Application with the **Create** button that uses `hoarder` provider.
Optionally apply access restrictions to the application.

## Hoarder configuration

In Hoarder, you'll need to add these environment variables:

```sh
NEXTAUTH_URL=https://hoarder.company
OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=<Client ID from authentik>
OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=<Client secret from authentik>
OAUTH_WELLKNOWN_URL=https://authentik.company/application/o/hoarder/.well-known/openid-configuration
OAUTH_PROVIDER_NAME=authentik
OAUTH_ALLOW_DANGEROUS_EMAIL_ACCOUNT_LINKING=true
# Optional: You can add this if you only want to allow login with Authentik
# DISABLE_PASSWORD_AUTH=true
# Optional but highly recommended:
# DISABLE_SIGNUPS=true
```

Finally, restart the Hoarder server and test your configuration.
