website/integrations/services/netbird/index.md, before:

---
title: Integrate with NetBird
sidebar_label: NetBird
---

# NetBird

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is NetBird?

> NetBird is an open source, zero trust, networking platform that allows you to create secure private networks for your organization or home.
>
> -- https://netbird.io

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `netbird.company` is the FQDN of the NetBird installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

## authentik configuration

### Provider & application configuration

1. Access the **Admin Interface** of your authentik installation.
2. Create a new **OAuth2 / OpenID Provider**.
3. Ensure the **Client Type** is set to `Public`.
4. Note the generated **Client ID** and **Client Secret**.
5. In the provider settings, add the following redirect URLs under **Redirect URIs/Origins**:
    - Strict; `https://netbird.company`
    - Regex; `https://netbird.company/.*`
    - Strict; `http://localhost:53000`
6. Under **Signing Key**, select an available key. By default, the authentik self-signed certificate is available.
7. Under **Advanced Protocol Settings**, set the **Access Code Validity** to `minutes=10` and set the **Subject Mode** to `Based on the User's ID`.
8. Click **Finish** to save the provider configuration.
9. Create a new application associated with this provider.

### Service account setup

1. Access the **Admin Interface** of your authentik install once more.
2. Navigate to **Directory** -> **Users**, and click **Create a service account**.
3. Set the username to `NetBird` and disable the **Create group** option.
4. Take note of the generated password.

### Adding the service account to the administrator group

1. Under **Directory** -> **Groups**, select the `authentik Default Admins` group and switch to the **Users** tab near the top of the page.
2. Click **Add existing user** and then select your NetBird service account.

## NetBird configuration

To configure NetBird to use authentik, add the following values to your `setup.env` file:

```
NETBIRD_AUTH_OIDC_CONFIGURATION_ENDPOINT="https://authentik.company/application/o/netbird/.well-known/openid-configuration"
NETBIRD_USE_AUTH0=false
NETBIRD_AUTH_CLIENT_ID="<Your Client ID>"
NETBIRD_AUTH_SUPPORTED_SCOPES="openid profile email offline_access api"
NETBIRD_AUTH_AUDIENCE="<Your Client Secret>"
NETBIRD_AUTH_DEVICE_AUTH_CLIENT_ID="<Your Client ID>"
NETBIRD_AUTH_DEVICE_AUTH_AUDIENCE="<Your Client ID>"
NETBIRD_MGMT_IDP="authentik"
NETBIRD_IDP_MGMT_CLIENT_ID="<Your Client ID>"
NETBIRD_IDP_MGMT_EXTRA_USERNAME="Netbird"
NETBIRD_IDP_MGMT_EXTRA_PASSWORD="<Your Service Account password>"
```

After making these changes, restart your Docker containers to apply the new configuration.

Once completed, NetBird should be successfully configured to use authentik as its Single Sign-On provider.

Commit message:

website/integrations-all: add default values change warning

website/integrations/services/netbird/index.md, after:

---
title: Integrate with NetBird
sidebar_label: NetBird
---

# NetBird

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is NetBird?

> NetBird is an open source, zero trust, networking platform that allows you to create secure private networks for your organization or home.
>
> -- https://netbird.io

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `netbird.company` is the FQDN of the NetBird installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that have been changed from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

## authentik configuration

### Provider & application configuration

1. Access the **Admin Interface** of your authentik installation.
2. Create a new **OAuth2 / OpenID Provider**.
3. Ensure the **Client Type** is set to `Public`.
4. Note the generated **Client ID** and **Client Secret**.
5. In the provider settings, add the following redirect URLs under **Redirect URIs/Origins**:
    - Strict; `https://netbird.company`
    - Regex; `https://netbird.company/.*`
    - Strict; `http://localhost:53000`
6. Under **Signing Key**, select an available key. By default, the authentik self-signed certificate is available.
7. Under **Advanced Protocol Settings**, set the **Access Code Validity** to `minutes=10` and set the **Subject Mode** to `Based on the User's ID`.
8. Click **Finish** to save the provider configuration.
9. Create a new application associated with this provider.

### Service account setup

1. Access the **Admin Interface** of your authentik install once more.
2. Navigate to **Directory** -> **Users**, and click **Create a service account**.
3. Set the username to `NetBird` and disable the **Create group** option.
4. Take note of the generated password.

### Adding the service account to the administrator group

1. Under **Directory** -> **Groups**, select the `authentik Default Admins` group and switch to the **Users** tab near the top of the page.
2. Click **Add existing user** and then select your NetBird service account.

## NetBird configuration

To configure NetBird to use authentik, add the following values to your `setup.env` file:

```
NETBIRD_AUTH_OIDC_CONFIGURATION_ENDPOINT="https://authentik.company/application/o/netbird/.well-known/openid-configuration"
NETBIRD_USE_AUTH0=false
NETBIRD_AUTH_CLIENT_ID="<Your Client ID>"
NETBIRD_AUTH_SUPPORTED_SCOPES="openid profile email offline_access api"
NETBIRD_AUTH_AUDIENCE="<Your Client Secret>"
NETBIRD_AUTH_DEVICE_AUTH_CLIENT_ID="<Your Client ID>"
NETBIRD_AUTH_DEVICE_AUTH_AUDIENCE="<Your Client ID>"
NETBIRD_MGMT_IDP="authentik"
NETBIRD_IDP_MGMT_CLIENT_ID="<Your Client ID>"
NETBIRD_IDP_MGMT_EXTRA_USERNAME="Netbird"
NETBIRD_IDP_MGMT_EXTRA_PASSWORD="<Your Service Account password>"
```

After making these changes, restart your Docker containers to apply the new configuration.

Once completed, NetBird should be successfully configured to use authentik as its Single Sign-On provider.
