website/docs/add-secure-apps/flows-stages/stages/authenticator_validate/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Authenticator Validation stage
---

This stage validates an already configured Authenticator Device. This device has to be configured using any of the other authenticator stages:

- [Duo authenticator stage](../authenticator_duo/index.mdx)
- [Email authenticator stage](../authenticator_email/index.md)
- [SMS authenticator stage](../authenticator_sms/index.mdx)
- [Static authenticator stage](../authenticator_static/index.md)
- [TOTP authenticator stage](../authenticator_totp/index.md)
- [WebAuthn authenticator stage](../authenticator_webauthn/index.mdx)

You can select which type of device classes are allowed.

Using the `Not configured action`, you can choose what happens when a user does not have any matching devices.

- Skip: Validation is skipped and the flow continues
- Deny: Access is denied, the flow execution ends
- Configure: This option requires a _Configuration stage_ to be set. The validation stage will be marked as successful, and the configuration stage will be injected into the flow.

By default, authenticator validation is required every time the flow containing this stage is executed. To only change this behavior, set _Last validation threshold_ to a non-zero value. (Requires authentik 2022.5)
Keep in mind that when using Code-based devices (TOTP, Static and SMS), values lower than `seconds=30` cannot be used, as with the way TOTP devices are saved, there is no exact timestamp.

### Options

#### Less-frequent validation

You can configure this stage to only ask for MFA validation if the user hasn't authenticated themselves within a defined time period. To configure this, set _Last validation threshold_ to any non-zero value. Any of the users devices within the selected classes are checked.

#### Passwordless authentication

:::caution
Firefox has some known issues regarding TouchID (see https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1536482)
:::

Passwordless authentication currently only supports WebAuthn devices, like security keys and biometrics. For an alternate passwordless setup, see [Password stage](../password/index.md#passwordless-login), which supports other types.

To configure passwordless authentication, create a new Flow with the designation set to _Authentication_.

As first stage, add an _Authenticator validation_ stage, with the WebAuthn device class allowed.
After this stage you can bind any additional verification stages.
As final stage, bind a _User login_ stage.

Users can either access this flow directly via its URL, or you can modify any Identification stage's _Passwordless flow_ setting to add a direct link to this flow.

#### Logging

Logins which used Passwordless authentication have the _auth_method_ context variable set to `auth_webauthn_pwl`, and the device used is saved in the arguments. Example:

```json
{
    "auth_method": "auth_webauthn_pwl",
    "http_request": {
        "args": {
            "query": ""
        },
        "path": "/api/v3/flows/executor/test/",
        "method": "GET"
    },
    "auth_method_args": {
        "device": {
            "pk": 1,
            "app": "authentik_stages_authenticator_webauthn",
            "name": "test device",
            "model_name": "webauthndevice"
        }
    }
}
```

#### WebAuthn Device type restrictions:ak-version[2024.4]

Optionally restrict which WebAuthn device types can be used to authenticate.

When no restriction is set, all WebAuthn devices a user has registered are allowed.

These restrictions only apply to WebAuthn devices created with authentik 2024.4 or later.

#### Automatic device selection

If the user has more than one device, the user is prompted to select which device they want to use for validation. After the user successfully authenticates with a certain device, that device is marked as "last used". In subsequent prompts by the Authenticator validation stage, the last used device is automatically selected for the user. Should they wish to use another device, the user can return to the device selection screen.

Commit message:

website/docs: Add Passkeys reference where WebAuthn is mentioned (#13167)
* Add Passkeys reference in several parts where WebAuthn is mentioned for better docs UX and SEO)

* Add version badge to Webauthn / passkeys authenticator

* fix linting issues

* Better wording to differenciate concepts

* Revert to css class for version badge because the ak-version tag don't support versions=<2023

website/docs/add-secure-apps/flows-stages/stages/authenticator_validate/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Authenticator Validation stage
---

This stage validates an already configured Authenticator Device. This device has to be configured using any of the other authenticator stages:

- [Duo authenticator stage](../authenticator_duo/index.mdx)
- [Email authenticator stage](../authenticator_email/index.md)
- [SMS authenticator stage](../authenticator_sms/index.mdx)
- [Static authenticator stage](../authenticator_static/index.md)
- [TOTP authenticator stage](../authenticator_totp/index.md)
- [WebAuthn authenticator stage](../authenticator_webauthn/index.mdx)

You can select which type of device classes are allowed.

Using the `Not configured action`, you can choose what happens when a user does not have any matching devices.

- Skip: Validation is skipped and the flow continues
- Deny: Access is denied, the flow execution ends
- Configure: This option requires a _Configuration stage_ to be set. The validation stage will be marked as successful, and the configuration stage will be injected into the flow.

By default, authenticator validation is required every time the flow containing this stage is executed. To only change this behavior, set _Last validation threshold_ to a non-zero value. (Requires authentik 2022.5)
Keep in mind that when using Code-based devices (TOTP, Static and SMS), values lower than `seconds=30` cannot be used, as with the way TOTP devices are saved, there is no exact timestamp.

### Options

#### Less-frequent validation

You can configure this stage to only ask for MFA validation if the user hasn't authenticated themselves within a defined time period. To configure this, set _Last validation threshold_ to any non-zero value. Any of the users devices within the selected classes are checked.

#### Passwordless authentication

:::caution
Firefox has some known issues regarding TouchID (see https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1536482)
:::

Passwordless authentication currently only supports WebAuthn devices, which provides for the use of passkeys, security keys and biometrics. For an alternate passwordless setup, see [Password stage](../password/index.md#passwordless-login), which supports other types.

To configure passwordless authentication, create a new Flow with the designation set to _Authentication_.

As first stage, add an _Authenticator validation_ stage, with the WebAuthn device class allowed.
After this stage you can bind any additional verification stages.
As final stage, bind a _User login_ stage.

Users can either access this flow directly via its URL, or you can modify any Identification stage's _Passwordless flow_ setting to add a direct link to this flow.

#### Logging

Logins which used Passwordless authentication have the _auth_method_ context variable set to `auth_webauthn_pwl`, and the device used is saved in the arguments. Example:

```json
{
    "auth_method": "auth_webauthn_pwl",
    "http_request": {
        "args": {
            "query": ""
        },
        "path": "/api/v3/flows/executor/test/",
        "method": "GET"
    },
    "auth_method_args": {
        "device": {
            "pk": 1,
            "app": "authentik_stages_authenticator_webauthn",
            "name": "test device",
            "model_name": "webauthndevice"
        }
    }
}
```

#### WebAuthn Device type restrictions:ak-version[2024.4]

Optionally restrict which WebAuthn device types can be used to authenticate.

When no restriction is set, all WebAuthn devices a user has registered are allowed.

These restrictions only apply to WebAuthn devices created with authentik 2024.4 or later.

#### Automatic device selection

If the user has more than one device, the user is prompted to select which device they want to use for validation. After the user successfully authenticates with a certain device, that device is marked as "last used". In subsequent prompts by the Authenticator validation stage, the last used device is automatically selected for the user. Should they wish to use another device, the user can return to the device selection screen.
