website/integrations/services/rancher/index.md, before:

---
title: Integrate with Rancher
sidebar_label: Rancher
---

# Rancher

<span class="badge badge--primary">Support level: authentik</span>

## What is Rancher

> An enterprise platform for managing Kubernetes Everywhere
> Rancher is a platform built to address the needs of the DevOps teams deploying applications with Kubernetes, and the IT staff responsible for delivering an enterprise-critical service.
>
> -- https://rancher.com/products/rancher

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `rancher.company` is the FQDN of the Rancher installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

Under _Customization_ -> _Property Mappings_, create a _SAML Property Mapping_. Give it a name like "SAML Rancher User ID". Set the SAML name to `rancherUidUsername` and the expression to the following

```python
return f"{user.pk}-{user.username}"
```

Create an application in authentik. Set the Launch URL to `https://rancher.company`, as Rancher does not currently support IdP-initiated logins.

Create a SAML provider with the following parameters:

- ACS URL: `https://rancher.company/v1-saml/adfs/saml/acs`
- Audience: `https://rancher.company/v1-saml/adfs/saml/metadata`
- Issuer: `authentik`
- Service Provider Binding: `Post`
- Property mappings: Select all default mappings and the mapping you've created above.
- Signing Certificate: Select the authentik self-signed certificate.

You can of course use a custom signing certificate, and adjust durations.

## Rancher

In Rancher, navigate to _Global_ -> _Security_ -> _Authentication_, and select ADFS.

Fill in the fields

- Display Name Field: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/name`
- User Name Field: `http://schemas.goauthentik.io/2021/02/saml/username`
- UID Field: `rancherUidUsername`
- Groups Field: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/claims/Group`

For the private key and certificate, you can either generate a new pair (in authentik, navigate to _Identity & Cryptography_ -> _Certificates_ and select Generate), or use an existing pair.

Copy the metadata from authentik, and paste it in the metadata field.

Click on save to test the authentication.

![](./rancher.png)

Commit message:

website/integrations-all: add default values change warning

website/integrations/services/rancher/index.md, after:

---
title: Integrate with Rancher
sidebar_label: Rancher
---

# Rancher

<span class="badge badge--primary">Support level: authentik</span>

## What is Rancher

> An enterprise platform for managing Kubernetes Everywhere
> Rancher is a platform built to address the needs of the DevOps teams deploying applications with Kubernetes, and the IT staff responsible for delivering an enterprise-critical service.
>
> -- https://rancher.com/products/rancher

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `rancher.company` is the FQDN of the Rancher installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that have been changed from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

Under _Customization_ -> _Property Mappings_, create a _SAML Property Mapping_. Give it a name like "SAML Rancher User ID". Set the SAML name to `rancherUidUsername` and the expression to the following

```python
return f"{user.pk}-{user.username}"
```

Create an application in authentik. Set the Launch URL to `https://rancher.company`, as Rancher does not currently support IdP-initiated logins.

Create a SAML provider with the following parameters:

- ACS URL: `https://rancher.company/v1-saml/adfs/saml/acs`
- Audience: `https://rancher.company/v1-saml/adfs/saml/metadata`
- Issuer: `authentik`
- Service Provider Binding: `Post`
- Property mappings: Select all default mappings and the mapping you've created above.
- Signing Certificate: Select the authentik self-signed certificate.

You can of course use a custom signing certificate, and adjust durations.

## Rancher

In Rancher, navigate to _Global_ -> _Security_ -> _Authentication_, and select ADFS.

Fill in the fields

- Display Name Field: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/name`
- User Name Field: `http://schemas.goauthentik.io/2021/02/saml/username`
- UID Field: `rancherUidUsername`
- Groups Field: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/claims/Group`

For the private key and certificate, you can either generate a new pair (in authentik, navigate to _Identity & Cryptography_ -> _Certificates_ and select Generate), or use an existing pair.

Copy the metadata from authentik, and paste it in the metadata field.

Click on save to test the authentication.

![](./rancher.png)
