website/integrations/services/onlyoffice/index.md, before:

---
title: Integrate with OnlyOffice
sidebar_label: OnlyOffice
---

# OnlyOffice

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is OnlyOffice

> OnlyOffice, stylized as ONLYOFFICE, is a free software office suite developed by Ascensio System SIA, a company headquartered in Riga, Latvia. It features online document editors, platform for document management, corporate communication, mail and project management tools
>
> -- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OnlyOffice

:::note
This is based on authentik 2021.10.4 and OnlyOffice 11.5.4.1582. Instructions may differ between versions.
:::

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of authentik.
- `onlyoffice.company` is the FQDN of the OnlyOffice instance.

Open your OnlyOffice instance, navigate to the settings by clicking the cog-icon in the navbar, then click on _Control Panel_ on the sidebar.

In the new tab, click on _SSO_ in the sidebar.

Click the _Enable Single Sign-on Authentication_ checkbox to enable SSO.

Scroll down to _ONLYOFFICE SP Metadata_, and copy the _SP Entity ID (link to metadata XML)_ URL. Open this URL in a new tab, and download the XML file.

## authentik Setup

Create an application in authentik, and create a SAML Provider by using _SAML Provider from Metadata_. Give the provider a name, and upload the XML file you've downloaded in the previous step.

Edit the resulting Provider, and ensure _Signing Certificate_ is set to any certificate.

Navigate on the _Metadata_ tab on the Provider page, and click _Copy download URL_.

## OnlyOffice Setup

Navigate back to your OnlyOffice Control panel, and paste the URL into _Load metadata from XML to fill the required fields automatically_, and click the upload button next to the input field.

Under _Attribute Mapping_, set the following values

- _First Name_: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/name`
- _Last Name_: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/name`
- _Email_: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/emailaddress`

Click save and a new SSO button will appear on the OnlyOffice login page.

Commit message:

website/integrations-all: add default values change warning

website/integrations/services/onlyoffice/index.md, after:

---
title: Integrate with OnlyOffice
sidebar_label: OnlyOffice
---

# OnlyOffice

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is OnlyOffice

> OnlyOffice, stylized as ONLYOFFICE, is a free software office suite developed by Ascensio System SIA, a company headquartered in Riga, Latvia. It features online document editors, platform for document management, corporate communication, mail and project management tools
>
> -- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OnlyOffice

:::note
This is based on authentik 2021.10.4 and OnlyOffice 11.5.4.1582. Instructions may differ between versions.
:::

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of authentik.
- `onlyoffice.company` is the FQDN of the OnlyOffice instance.

Open your OnlyOffice instance, navigate to the settings by clicking the cog-icon in the navbar, then click on _Control Panel_ on the sidebar.

In the new tab, click on _SSO_ in the sidebar.

Click the _Enable Single Sign-on Authentication_ checkbox to enable SSO.

Scroll down to _ONLYOFFICE SP Metadata_, and copy the _SP Entity ID (link to metadata XML)_ URL. Open this URL in a new tab, and download the XML file.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that have been changed from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

## authentik Setup

Create an application in authentik, and create a SAML Provider by using _SAML Provider from Metadata_. Give the provider a name, and upload the XML file you've downloaded in the previous step.

Edit the resulting Provider, and ensure _Signing Certificate_ is set to any certificate.

Navigate on the _Metadata_ tab on the Provider page, and click _Copy download URL_.

## OnlyOffice Setup

Navigate back to your OnlyOffice Control panel, and paste the URL into _Load metadata from XML to fill the required fields automatically_, and click the upload button next to the input field.

Under _Attribute Mapping_, set the following values

- _First Name_: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/name`
- _Last Name_: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/name`
- _Email_: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/emailaddress`

Click save and a new SSO button will appear on the OnlyOffice login page.
