website/integrations/services/apache-guacamole/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Integrate with Apache Guacamole™
sidebar_label: Apache Guacamole™
support_level: authentik
---

## What is Apache Guacamole™

> Apache Guacamole is a clientless remote desktop gateway. It supports standard protocols like VNC, RDP, and SSH.
>
> -- https://guacamole.apache.org/

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `guacamole.company` is the FQDN of the Guacamole installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that you need to change from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

Create an OAuth2/OpenID provider with the following parameters:

- **Client Type**: `Confidential`
- **Redirect URIs**: `https://guacamole.company/` (depending on your Tomcat setup, you might have to add `/guacamole/` if the application runs in a subfolder)
- **Scopes**: OpenID, Email, and Profile

Under **Advanced protocol settings**, set the following:

- **Token validity**: Any value to configure how long the session should last. Guacamole will not accept any tokens valid longer than 300 Minutes.
- **Signing Key**: Set the key as `authentik Self-signed Certificate`

Note the Client ID value. Create an application, using the provider you've created above.

## Guacamole

It is recommended you configure an admin account in Guacamole before setting up SSO to make things easier. Create a user in Guacamole using the username of your user in authentik and give them admin permissions. Without this, you might lose access to the Guacamole admin settings and have to revert the settings below.

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

<Tabs
  defaultValue="docker"
  values={[
    { label: 'Docker', value: 'docker' },
    { label: 'Standalone', value: 'standalone' },
  ]}>
  <TabItem value="docker">
    The Docker containers are configured via environment variables. The following variables are required:

```yaml
OPENID_AUTHORIZATION_ENDPOINT: https://authentik.company/application/o/authorize/
OPENID_CLIENT_ID: # client ID from above
OPENID_ISSUER: https://authentik.company/application/o/*Slug of the application from above*/
OPENID_JWKS_ENDPOINT: https://authentik.company/application/o/*Slug of the application from above*/jwks/
OPENID_REDIRECT_URI: https://guacamole.company/ # This must match the redirect URI above
OPENID_USERNAME_CLAIM_TYPE: preferred_username
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="standalone">
    Standalone Guacamole is configured using the `guacamole.properties` file. Add the following settings:

```
openid-authorization-endpoint=https://authentik.company/application/o/authorize/
openid-client-id=# client ID from above
openid-issuer=https://authentik.company/application/o/*Slug of the application from above*/
openid-jwks-endpoint=https://authentik.company/application/o/*Slug of the application from above*/jwks/
openid-redirect-uri=https://guacamole.company/ # This must match the redirect URI above
openid-username-claim-type=preferred_username
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Self Signed Certificates

If using a self signed certificate it is required to add the certificate of the associated Certificate Authority to `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt` and `/opt/java/openjkd/jre/lib/security/cacerts` on your Apache Guacamole deployment.

#### adding Certificate Authority certificate as trusted in `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt`

1. Copy the certificate of the Certificate Authority (e.g. `<CA_certificate>.crt`) to the `/usr/local/share/ca-certificates/` directory. Ensure that the filetype is `.crt`.

2. To add the certificate as trusted in `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt`, use the following command:

```shell
update-ca-certificates
```

#### adding Certificate Authority certificate to `/opt/java/openjkd/jre/lib/security/cacerts`

1. To export the certificate of the Certificate Authority, use the following command:

```shell
openssl pkcs12 -export -in <CA_certificate>.crt -inkey <CA_certificate>.key -out <CA_certificate>.p12 -passout pass:<password>
```

2. To import the certificate to the `/opt/java/openjdk/jre/lib/security/cacerts` keystore, use the following command:

```shell
keytool -importkeystore -srckeystore <CA_certificate>.p12 -srcstoretype PKCS12 -keystore /opt/java/openjdk/jre/lib/security/cacerts -deststorepass <destination_store_password> -nopromt -srcstorepass <password>
```

:::note
More information on the keytool command can be found in the [Oracle documentation.](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/specs/man/keytool.html)
:::

Commit message:

Added mention of OS specific section

website/integrations/services/apache-guacamole/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Integrate with Apache Guacamole™
sidebar_label: Apache Guacamole™
support_level: authentik
---

## What is Apache Guacamole™

> Apache Guacamole is a clientless remote desktop gateway. It supports standard protocols like VNC, RDP, and SSH.
>
> -- https://guacamole.apache.org/

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `guacamole.company` is the FQDN of the Guacamole installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that you need to change from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

Create an OAuth2/OpenID provider with the following parameters:

- **Client Type**: `Confidential`
- **Redirect URIs**: `https://guacamole.company/` (depending on your Tomcat setup, you might have to add `/guacamole/` if the application runs in a subfolder)
- **Scopes**: OpenID, Email, and Profile

Under **Advanced protocol settings**, set the following:

- **Token validity**: Any value to configure how long the session should last. Guacamole will not accept any tokens valid longer than 300 Minutes.
- **Signing Key**: Set the key as `authentik Self-signed Certificate`

Note the Client ID value. Create an application, using the provider you've created above.

## Guacamole

It is recommended you configure an admin account in Guacamole before setting up SSO to make things easier. Create a user in Guacamole using the username of your user in authentik and give them admin permissions. Without this, you might lose access to the Guacamole admin settings and have to revert the settings below.

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

<Tabs
  defaultValue="docker"
  values={[
    { label: 'Docker', value: 'docker' },
    { label: 'Standalone', value: 'standalone' },
  ]}>
  <TabItem value="docker">
    The Docker containers are configured via environment variables. The following variables are required:

```yaml
OPENID_AUTHORIZATION_ENDPOINT: https://authentik.company/application/o/authorize/
OPENID_CLIENT_ID: # client ID from above
OPENID_ISSUER: https://authentik.company/application/o/*Slug of the application from above*/
OPENID_JWKS_ENDPOINT: https://authentik.company/application/o/*Slug of the application from above*/jwks/
OPENID_REDIRECT_URI: https://guacamole.company/ # This must match the redirect URI above
OPENID_USERNAME_CLAIM_TYPE: preferred_username
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="standalone">
    Standalone Guacamole is configured using the `guacamole.properties` file. Add the following settings:

```
openid-authorization-endpoint=https://authentik.company/application/o/authorize/
openid-client-id=# client ID from above
openid-issuer=https://authentik.company/application/o/*Slug of the application from above*/
openid-jwks-endpoint=https://authentik.company/application/o/*Slug of the application from above*/jwks/
openid-redirect-uri=https://guacamole.company/ # This must match the redirect URI above
openid-username-claim-type=preferred_username
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Self Signed Certificates

If using a self signed certificate it is required to add the certificate of the associated Certificate Authority to `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt` and `/opt/java/openjkd/jre/lib/security/cacerts` on your Apache Guacamole deployment.

#### adding Certificate Authority certificate as trusted in `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt`

This section depends on the operating system hosting Apache Guacamole. This particlar example applies to Debian based operating systems.

1. Copy the certificate of the Certificate Authority (e.g. `<CA_certificate>.crt`) to the `/usr/local/share/ca-certificates/` directory. Ensure that the filetype is `.crt`.

2. To add the certificate as trusted in `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt`, use the following command:

```shell
update-ca-certificates
```

#### adding Certificate Authority certificate to `/opt/java/openjkd/jre/lib/security/cacerts`

1. To export the certificate of the Certificate Authority, use the following command:

```shell
openssl pkcs12 -export -in <CA_certificate>.crt -inkey <CA_certificate>.key -out <CA_certificate>.p12 -passout pass:<password>
```

2. To import the certificate to the `/opt/java/openjdk/jre/lib/security/cacerts` keystore, use the following command:

```shell
keytool -importkeystore -srckeystore <CA_certificate>.p12 -srcstoretype PKCS12 -keystore /opt/java/openjdk/jre/lib/security/cacerts -deststorepass <destination_store_password> -nopromt -srcstorepass <password>
```

:::note
More information on the keytool command can be found in the [Oracle documentation.](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/specs/man/keytool.html)
:::
