website/integrations/services/node-red/index.md, before:

---
title: Integrate with Node-RED
sidebar_label: Node-RED
---

# Integrate with Node-RED

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Node-RED

> Node-RED is a programming tool for wiring together hardware devices, APIs and online services in new and interesting ways.
>
> It provides a browser-based editor that makes it easy to wire together flows using the wide range of nodes in the palette that can be deployed to its runtime in a single-click.
>
> -- https://nodered.org/

:::caution
This requires modification of the Node-RED settings.js and installing additional Passport-js packages, see [Securing Node-RED](https://nodered.org/docs/user-guide/runtime/securing-node-red#oauthopenid-based-authentication) documentation for further details.
:::

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of authentik.
- `nodred.company` is the FQDN of Node-RED.

### Step 1

In authentik, create an _OAuth2/OpenID Provider_ (under _Applications/Providers_) with these settings:

:::note
Only settings that have been modified from default have been listed.
:::

- Name: Node-RED

**Protocol Settings**

- Redirect URIs/Origins (RegEx): https://nodred.company/auth/strategy/callback/
- Signing Key: Select any available key

:::note
Take note of the `Client ID` and `Client Secret`, you'll need to give them to Node-RED in _Step 3_.
:::

### Step 2

In authentik, create an application (under _Resources/Applications_) which uses this provider. Optionally apply access restrictions to the application using policy bindings.

:::note
Only settings that have been modified from default have been listed.
:::

- Name: Node-RED
- Slug: nodered-slug
- Provider: Node-RED

Optionally you can link directly to the authentication strategy

- Launch URL: https://nodred.company/auth/strategy/

### Step 3

:::note
Group based permissions are not implemented in the below example
:::

Use npm to install passport-openidconnect

Navigate to the node-red `node_modules` directory, this is dependent on your chosen install method. In the official Node-RED docker container the `node_modules` directory is located in the data volume `data/node_modules/`. Alternatively enter the docker container `docker exec -it nodered bash` and `cd /data/node_modules` to utilise npm within the docker container.

Run the command `npm install passport-openidconnect`

### Step 4

Edit the node-red settings.js file `/data/settings.js` to use the external authentication source via passport-openidconnect.

```js
adminAuth: {
type:"strategy",
strategy: {
        name: "openidconnect",
        label: 'Sign in with authentik',
        icon:"fa-cloud",
        strategy: require("passport-openidconnect").Strategy,
        options: {
                issuer: 'https://authentik.company/application/o/<application-slug>/',
                authorizationURL: 'https://authentik.company/application/o/authorize/',
                tokenURL: 'https://authentik.company/application/o/token/',
                userInfoURL: 'https://authentik.company/application/o/userinfo/',
                clientID: '<Client ID (Key): Step 2>',
                clientSecret: '<Client Secret: Step 2>',
                callbackURL: 'https://nodered.company/auth/strategy/callback/',
                scope: ['email', 'profile', 'openid'],
                proxy: true,
        verify: function(issuer, profile, done) {
                done(null, profile)
        }
      }
    },
    users: function(user) {
        return Promise.resolve({ username: user, permissions: "*" });
    }
},
```

Commit message:

website/integrations-all: add default values change warning (#12777)
* website/integrations-all: add default values change warning

* website/integrations-all: update message

* Update website/integrations/services/gitea/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/gitea/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/pgadmin/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/hashicorp-cloud/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/hashicorp-vault/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/oracle-cloud/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/hashicorp-vault/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/pgadmin/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/proxmox-ve/index.md

Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>

* Update website/integrations/services/zammad/index.md

Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>

* Update website/integrations/services/writefreely/index.md

Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>

---------

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>
Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>
Co-authored-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

website/integrations/services/node-red/index.md, after:

---
title: Integrate with Node-RED
sidebar_label: Node-RED
---

# Integrate with Node-RED

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Node-RED

> Node-RED is a programming tool for wiring together hardware devices, APIs and online services in new and interesting ways.
>
> It provides a browser-based editor that makes it easy to wire together flows using the wide range of nodes in the palette that can be deployed to its runtime in a single-click.
>
> -- https://nodered.org/

:::caution
This requires modification of the Node-RED settings.js and installing additional Passport-js packages, see [Securing Node-RED](https://nodered.org/docs/user-guide/runtime/securing-node-red#oauthopenid-based-authentication) documentation for further details.
:::

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of authentik.
- `nodred.company` is the FQDN of Node-RED.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that you need to change from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

### Step 1

In authentik, create an _OAuth2/OpenID Provider_ (under _Applications/Providers_) with these settings:

:::note
Only settings that have been modified from default have been listed.
:::

- Name: Node-RED

**Protocol Settings**

- Redirect URIs/Origins (RegEx): https://nodred.company/auth/strategy/callback/
- Signing Key: Select any available key

:::note
Take note of the `Client ID` and `Client Secret`, you'll need to give them to Node-RED in _Step 3_.
:::

### Step 2

In authentik, create an application (under _Resources/Applications_) which uses this provider. Optionally apply access restrictions to the application using policy bindings.

:::note
Only settings that have been modified from default have been listed.
:::

- Name: Node-RED
- Slug: nodered-slug
- Provider: Node-RED

Optionally you can link directly to the authentication strategy

- Launch URL: https://nodred.company/auth/strategy/

### Step 3

:::note
Group based permissions are not implemented in the below example
:::

Use npm to install passport-openidconnect

Navigate to the node-red `node_modules` directory, this is dependent on your chosen install method. In the official Node-RED docker container the `node_modules` directory is located in the data volume `data/node_modules/`. Alternatively enter the docker container `docker exec -it nodered bash` and `cd /data/node_modules` to utilise npm within the docker container.

Run the command `npm install passport-openidconnect`

### Step 4

Edit the node-red settings.js file `/data/settings.js` to use the external authentication source via passport-openidconnect.

```js
adminAuth: {
type:"strategy",
strategy: {
        name: "openidconnect",
        label: 'Sign in with authentik',
        icon:"fa-cloud",
        strategy: require("passport-openidconnect").Strategy,
        options: {
                issuer: 'https://authentik.company/application/o/<application-slug>/',
                authorizationURL: 'https://authentik.company/application/o/authorize/',
                tokenURL: 'https://authentik.company/application/o/token/',
                userInfoURL: 'https://authentik.company/application/o/userinfo/',
                clientID: '<Client ID (Key): Step 2>',
                clientSecret: '<Client Secret: Step 2>',
                callbackURL: 'https://nodered.company/auth/strategy/callback/',
                scope: ['email', 'profile', 'openid'],
                proxy: true,
        verify: function(issuer, profile, done) {
                done(null, profile)
        }
      }
    },
    users: function(user) {
        return Promise.resolve({ username: user, permissions: "*" });
    }
},
```
