website/integrations/services/linkwarden/index.md, before:

---
title: Integrate with Linkwarden
sidebar_label: Linkwarden
---

# Linkwarden

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Linkwarden

> Linkwarden is an open-source collaborative bookmark manager used to collect, organize, and preserve webpages.
>
> -- https://linkwarden.app/

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `linkwarden.company` is the FQDN of the Linkwarden installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

## Linkwarden configuration

To configure Linkwarden to use authentik, add the following values to your `.env` file:

```
NEXT_PUBLIC_AUTHENTIK_ENABLED=true
AUTHENTIK_CUSTOM_NAME=authentik # Optionally set a custom provider name. Will be displayed on the login page
AUTHENTIK_ISSUER=https://authentik.company/application/o/linkwarden
AUTHENTIK_CLIENT_ID=<Your Client ID>
AUTHENTIK_CLIENT_SECRET=<Your Client Secret>
```

After making these changes, restart your Docker containers to apply the new configuration.

## authentik configuration

1. Access the **Admin Interface** in on your authentik installation.
2. Create a new **OAuth2 / OpenID Provider**.
3. Note the generated **Client ID** and **Client Secret**.
4. In the provider settings, add this redirect URL under **Redirect URIs/Origins (RegEx)**: `https://linkwarden.company/api/v1/auth/callback/authentik`
5. Click **Finish** to save the provider configuration.
6. Create a new application associated with this provider.

Once completed, Linkwarden should be successfully configured to use authentik as its Single Sign-On SSO provider.

Commit message:

website/integrations-all: add default values change warning

website/integrations/services/linkwarden/index.md, after:

---
title: Integrate with Linkwarden
sidebar_label: Linkwarden
---

# Linkwarden

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Linkwarden

> Linkwarden is an open-source collaborative bookmark manager used to collect, organize, and preserve webpages.
>
> -- https://linkwarden.app/

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `linkwarden.company` is the FQDN of the Linkwarden installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that have been changed from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

## Linkwarden configuration

To configure Linkwarden to use authentik, add the following values to your `.env` file:

```
NEXT_PUBLIC_AUTHENTIK_ENABLED=true
AUTHENTIK_CUSTOM_NAME=authentik # Optionally set a custom provider name. Will be displayed on the login page
AUTHENTIK_ISSUER=https://authentik.company/application/o/linkwarden
AUTHENTIK_CLIENT_ID=<Your Client ID>
AUTHENTIK_CLIENT_SECRET=<Your Client Secret>
```

After making these changes, restart your Docker containers to apply the new configuration.

## authentik configuration

1. Access the **Admin Interface** in on your authentik installation.
2. Create a new **OAuth2 / OpenID Provider**.
3. Note the generated **Client ID** and **Client Secret**.
4. In the provider settings, add this redirect URL under **Redirect URIs/Origins (RegEx)**: `https://linkwarden.company/api/v1/auth/callback/authentik`
5. Click **Finish** to save the provider configuration.
6. Create a new application associated with this provider.

Once completed, Linkwarden should be successfully configured to use authentik as its Single Sign-On SSO provider.
