website/integrations/services/actual-budget/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Integrate with Actual Budget
sidebar_label: Actual Budget
---

# Actual Budget

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Actual Budget

> Actual Budget is a super-fast and privacy-focused app for managing your finances. At its core is the well-proven and much-loved envelope budgeting methodology.
You own your data and can do whatever you want with it. It features multi-device sync, optional end-to-end encryption, and much more.
> -- https://actualbudget.org/
>
> This guide explains how to configure Actual Budget to use authentik as the OAuth provider for logging in to the Web GUI.

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `actual.company` is the FQDN of the Actual Budget install.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik install.

## authentik configuration

[Create](https://docs.goauthentik.io/docs/add-secure-apps/applications/manage_apps#add-new-applications) an OAuth2/OpenID provider and an application in authentik. Use the following parameters for the OAuth2/OpenID provider:

**Provider:**

- Name: `SP-actual`
- Client type: `Confidential`
- Redirect URIs/Origins (RegEx): `https://actual.company/openid/callback`
- Signing Key: `authentik Self-signed Certificate`

Take note of the Client ID and Client Secret; you will need to provide them to Actual Budget in Step 3.

Leave the remaining values as default. Durations can be adjusted as needed.

**Application:**

- Name: `Actual Budget`
- Slug: `actual`
- Launch URL: `https://actual.company/`

## Actual Budget configuration

1. Log into your Actual Budget using a browser of your choice and open your budget.

2. Click your budget in the top-left corner to open the dropdown menu and select `Settings`.

3. Scroll to the bottom and select `Show advanced settings`. Scroll again and select `I understand the risks, show experimental features`.

4. Enable the option `OpenID authentication method` by selecting the checkbox next to it.

5. Scroll up to the new option `Authentication method...` and click the `Start using OpenID` button.

6. Enter the variables provided by authentik here.  
    - Set `OpenID Provider` to `Authentik`  
    - Set `OpenID provider URL` to `https://authentik.company/application/o/actual/`  
    - Set `Client ID` to `<client-id>`  
    - Set `Client secret` to `<client-secret>`

:::info
The first user that logs into Actual Budget via OpenID will become the owner of the budget.
:::

## Test the login

- Open a browser of your choice and navigate to `https://actual.company`.
- Select the OpenID login method in the dropdown menu and click the **Sign in with OpenID** button.
- You should be redirected to authentik (with the login flows you created), and then authentik will redirect you back to the `https://actual.company` URL.
- If you are redirected back to the `https://actual.company` URL and can see the budget file selection page, the setup was successful.

:::info
Users are not automatically created when logging in with authentik. The owner must manually create each user. To do so, click `Server online` at the top next to your name and select `User Directory`. Add a new user. The `Username` must match the one in authentik. You can now grant the new user access to your budget by clicking `Server online` next to your name at the top and selecting `User Access`.
:::

Commit message:

Changes made for comments of @4d62
Signed-off-by: NiceDevil <17103076+nicedevil007@users.noreply.github.com>

website/integrations/services/actual-budget/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Integrate with Actual Budget
sidebar_label: Actual Budget
---

# Actual Budget

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Actual Budget

> Actual Budget is a super-fast and privacy-focused app for managing your finances. At its core is the well-proven and much-loved envelope budgeting methodology.
> You own your data and can do whatever you want with it. It features multi-device sync, optional end-to-end encryption, and much more.
>
> -- https://actualbudget.org/
>
> This guide explains how to configure Actual Budget to use authentik as the OAuth provider for logging in to the Web GUI.

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `actual.company` is the FQDN of the Actual Budget install.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik install.

## authentik configuration

[Create](https://docs.goauthentik.io/docs/add-secure-apps/applications/manage_apps#add-new-applications) an OAuth2/OpenID provider and an application in authentik. Use the following parameters for the OAuth2/OpenID provider:

**Provider:**

- Name: `SP-actual`
- Client type: `Confidential`
- Redirect URIs/Origins (RegEx): `https://actual.company/openid/callback`
- Signing Key: Select any available signing keys.

:::info
Actual Budget supports the RS256 algorithm. Please ensure to consider this when choosing the appropriate signing key.
:::

Take note of the Client ID and Client Secret; you will need to provide them to Actual Budget in Step 3.

Leave the remaining values as default. Durations can be adjusted as needed.

**Application:**

- Name: `Actual Budget`
- Slug: `actual`
- Launch URL: `https://actual.company/`

## Actual Budget configuration

1. Sign in to Actual Budget with a browser of your choice and access your budget by clicking on its name.

2. Click your budget in the top-left corner to open the dropdown menu and select `Settings`.

3. Scroll to the bottom and select `Show advanced settings`. Scroll again and select `I understand the risks, show experimental features`.

4. Enable the option `OpenID authentication method` by selecting the checkbox next to it.

5. Scroll up to the new option `Authentication method...` and click the `Start using OpenID` button.

6. Enter the variables provided by authentik here.  
    - Set `OpenID Provider` to `Authentik`  
    - Set `OpenID provider URL` to `https://authentik.company/application/o/actual/`  
    - Set `Client ID` to `<client-id>` from Step 2
    - Set `Client secret` to `<client-secret>` from Step 2

:::info
The first user to log into Actual Budget via OpenID will become the owner and administrator with the highest privileges for the budget. Check the info box at the bottom for more information on how to create additional users.
:::

## Test the login

- Open a browser of your choice and navigate to `https://actual.company`.
- Select the OpenID login method in the dropdown menu and click the **Sign in with OpenID** button.
- You should be redirected to authentik (with the login flows you created), and then authentik will redirect you back to the `https://actual.company` URL.
- If you are redirected back to the `https://actual.company` URL and can see the budget file selection page, the setup was successful.

:::info
Users are not automatically created when logging in with authentik. The owner must manually create each user. To do so, click `Server online` at the top next to your name and select `User Directory`. Add a new user. The `Username` must match the one in authentik. You can now grant the new user access to your budget by clicking `Server online` next to your name at the top and selecting `User Access`.
:::
