website/integrations/services/slack/index.md, before:

---
title: Integrate with Slack
sidebar_label: Slack
---

# Integrate with Slack

<span class="badge badge--primary">Support level: authentik</span>

## What is Slack

> Slack is a platform for collaboration, with chat and real-time video capabilities. To learn more, visit https://slack.com.

## Preparation

The following placeholder will be used:

- You can use <kbd>slack.<em>company</em>></kbd> or <kbd><em>my-workspace</em>.slack.com</kbd> as the FQDN of your Slack instance.
- You can use <kbd>authentik.company</kbd> as the FQDN of the authentik installation.

For additional information about integrating with Slack, refer to their [documentation](https://slack.com/help/articles/205168057-Custom-SAML-single-sign-on).

## authentik configuration

### Step 1. Create custom property mappings

Your Slack integration requires two property mappings, one each for `User.Email` and `User.Username`, so that authentik can retrieve and map these values from Slack.

1. Log in as admin to your authentik instance and then click **Admin interface**.
2. Navigate to **Customization -> Property Mappings**.
3. Create the property mapping for `User.Email`.
    1. On the **Property Mappings** page, click **Create**.
    2. On the **New property mapping** modal, select **SAML Property Mapping** and then click **Next**.
    3. Define the required values. In the **Expression** field, define `User.Email` as `return request.user.email`.
4. Click **Finish**.
5. Create the property mapping for `User.Username`.
    1. On the **Property Mappings** page, click **Create**.
    2. On the **New property mapping** modal, select **SAML Property Mapping** and then click **Next**.
    3. Define the required values. In the **Expression** field, define `User.Username` as `return request.user.username`.
6. Click **Finish**.

### Step 2. Create a new authentication provider

1. Navigate to **Applications -> Providers** and then click **Create**.
2. On the **New provider** modal, select **SAML Provider** and then click **Next**.
3. Define the following values (values not listed below can be left as default or empty):
    - **Name**: provide a clear name, such as "slack".
    - **Authorization flow**: Authorize Application (`default-provider-authorization-implicit-consent`).
    - **Protocol settings** define the following values:
        - **ACS URL**: `https://_workspace-name_.slack.com/sso/saml`
        - **Issuer**: `https://slack.com`.
        - **Service Provider Binding**: select **Post**
    - **Advanced protocol settings**
        - **Signing Certificate**: select the appproriate certificate for Slack.
        - **Property mappings**: Select the property mappings that you created in Step 1. You can leave the default property mappings and other settings.
4. Click **Finish** to create the provider.

### Step 3. Create a new application

1. Navigate to **Applications -> Applications** and then click **Create**.
2. Provide a name for the new application.
3. Set the provider to the one you just created.
4. Click **Create**.

:::info
After you have created the provider and application, and the application is connected to the provider (Step 3 above) the **Overview** tab on the provider's detail page in the Admin UI will display additional information that you will need to configure Slack, using the following steps.
:::

## Slack configuration

### Step 4. Configure Slack

1. Log in to the Slack Admin Dashboard.
2. Navigate to the **Configure SAML Authentication** page.
3. Enter the following values:
    - **SAML 2.0 Endpoint (HTTP)**: copy/paste in the **SSO URL (Redirect)** URL from the provider that you created in authentik. **Example**: `https://_authentik.company_/applications/saml/slack/sso/binding/redirect/`
    - **Identity Provider Issuer**: set to `https://slack.com`
    - **Public Certificate**: add the certificate, which you can download from the authentik provider, under **Download signing certificate**.
4. Optionally, configure the other settings and customize the Sign in button label.
5. Click **Save**.

Commit message:

website/integrations-all: add default values change warning (#12777)
* website/integrations-all: add default values change warning

* website/integrations-all: update message

* Update website/integrations/services/gitea/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/gitea/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/pgadmin/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/hashicorp-cloud/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/hashicorp-vault/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/oracle-cloud/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/hashicorp-vault/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/pgadmin/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/proxmox-ve/index.md

Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>

* Update website/integrations/services/zammad/index.md

Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>

* Update website/integrations/services/writefreely/index.md

Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>

---------

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>
Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>
Co-authored-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

website/integrations/services/slack/index.md, after:

---
title: Integrate with Slack
sidebar_label: Slack
---

# Integrate with Slack

<span class="badge badge--primary">Support level: authentik</span>

## What is Slack

> Slack is a platform for collaboration, with chat and real-time video capabilities. To learn more, visit https://slack.com.

## Preparation

The following placeholder will be used:

- You can use <kbd>slack.<em>company</em>></kbd> or <kbd><em>my-workspace</em>.slack.com</kbd> as the FQDN of your Slack instance.
- You can use <kbd>authentik.company</kbd> as the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that you need to change from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

For additional information about integrating with Slack, refer to their [documentation](https://slack.com/help/articles/205168057-Custom-SAML-single-sign-on).

## authentik configuration

### Step 1. Create custom property mappings

Your Slack integration requires two property mappings, one each for `User.Email` and `User.Username`, so that authentik can retrieve and map these values from Slack.

1. Log in as admin to your authentik instance and then click **Admin interface**.
2. Navigate to **Customization -> Property Mappings**.
3. Create the property mapping for `User.Email`.
    1. On the **Property Mappings** page, click **Create**.
    2. On the **New property mapping** modal, select **SAML Property Mapping** and then click **Next**.
    3. Define the required values. In the **Expression** field, define `User.Email` as `return request.user.email`.
4. Click **Finish**.
5. Create the property mapping for `User.Username`.
    1. On the **Property Mappings** page, click **Create**.
    2. On the **New property mapping** modal, select **SAML Property Mapping** and then click **Next**.
    3. Define the required values. In the **Expression** field, define `User.Username` as `return request.user.username`.
6. Click **Finish**.

### Step 2. Create a new authentication provider

1. Navigate to **Applications -> Providers** and then click **Create**.
2. On the **New provider** modal, select **SAML Provider** and then click **Next**.
3. Define the following values (values not listed below can be left as default or empty):
    - **Name**: provide a clear name, such as "slack".
    - **Authorization flow**: Authorize Application (`default-provider-authorization-implicit-consent`).
    - **Protocol settings** define the following values:
        - **ACS URL**: `https://_workspace-name_.slack.com/sso/saml`
        - **Issuer**: `https://slack.com`.
        - **Service Provider Binding**: select **Post**
    - **Advanced protocol settings**
        - **Signing Certificate**: select the appproriate certificate for Slack.
        - **Property mappings**: Select the property mappings that you created in Step 1. You can leave the default property mappings and other settings.
4. Click **Finish** to create the provider.

### Step 3. Create a new application

1. Navigate to **Applications -> Applications** and then click **Create**.
2. Provide a name for the new application.
3. Set the provider to the one you just created.
4. Click **Create**.

:::info
After you have created the provider and application, and the application is connected to the provider (Step 3 above) the **Overview** tab on the provider's detail page in the Admin UI will display additional information that you will need to configure Slack, using the following steps.
:::

## Slack configuration

### Step 4. Configure Slack

1. Log in to the Slack Admin Dashboard.
2. Navigate to the **Configure SAML Authentication** page.
3. Enter the following values:
    - **SAML 2.0 Endpoint (HTTP)**: copy/paste in the **SSO URL (Redirect)** URL from the provider that you created in authentik. **Example**: `https://_authentik.company_/applications/saml/slack/sso/binding/redirect/`
    - **Identity Provider Issuer**: set to `https://slack.com`
    - **Public Certificate**: add the certificate, which you can download from the authentik provider, under **Download signing certificate**.
4. Optionally, configure the other settings and customize the Sign in button label.
5. Click **Save**.
