website/integrations/services/cloudflare-access/index.md, before:

---
title: Integrate with Cloudflare Access
sidebar_label: Cloudflare Access
---

# Cloudflare Access

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Cloudflare Access

> Cloudflare Access is a secure, cloud-based zero-trust solution for managing and authenticating user access to internal applications and resources.
>
> -- https://www.cloudflare.com/zero-trust/products/access/

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `company.cloudflareaccess.com` is the FQDN of your Cloudflare Access subdomain.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

To proceed, you need to register for a free Cloudflare Access account and have both a Cloudflare account and a publicly accessible authentik instance with a trusted SSL certificate.

## authentik configuration

1. From the Admin interface, navigate to **Applications** -> **Applications**.
2. Use the wizard to create a new application and provider. During this process:
    - Note the **Client ID**, **Client Secret**, and **slug** values because they will be required later.
    - Set a `Strict` redirect URI to `https://company.cloudflareaccess.com/cdn-cgi/access/callback`.
    - Select any available signing key.

## Cloudflare Access configuration

1. Open the [Cloudflare Access dashboard](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com) and navigate to **Settings** -> **Authentication**.
2. Click **Login methods**, and then select **Add** -> **OpenID Connect**.
3. From the authentik provider you created earlier, copy the following details and paste them into the corresponding fields:
    - **Client ID** -> App ID
    - **Client Secret** -> Client Secret
    - **Authorize URL** -> Auth URL
    - **Token URL** -> Token URL
    - **JWKS URL** -> Certificate URL
4. Click **Save**.
5. Click **Test** to verify the login provider.

Commit message:

website/integrations-all: add default values change warning

website/integrations/services/cloudflare-access/index.md, after:

---
title: Integrate with Cloudflare Access
sidebar_label: Cloudflare Access
---

# Cloudflare Access

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Cloudflare Access

> Cloudflare Access is a secure, cloud-based zero-trust solution for managing and authenticating user access to internal applications and resources.
>
> -- https://www.cloudflare.com/zero-trust/products/access/

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `company.cloudflareaccess.com` is the FQDN of your Cloudflare Access subdomain.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

To proceed, you need to register for a free Cloudflare Access account and have both a Cloudflare account and a publicly accessible authentik instance with a trusted SSL certificate.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that have been changed from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

## authentik configuration

1. From the Admin interface, navigate to **Applications** -> **Applications**.
2. Use the wizard to create a new application and provider. During this process:
    - Note the **Client ID**, **Client Secret**, and **slug** values because they will be required later.
    - Set a `Strict` redirect URI to `https://company.cloudflareaccess.com/cdn-cgi/access/callback`.
    - Select any available signing key.

## Cloudflare Access configuration

1. Open the [Cloudflare Access dashboard](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com) and navigate to **Settings** -> **Authentication**.
2. Click **Login methods**, and then select **Add** -> **OpenID Connect**.
3. From the authentik provider you created earlier, copy the following details and paste them into the corresponding fields:
    - **Client ID** -> App ID
    - **Client Secret** -> Client Secret
    - **Authorize URL** -> Auth URL
    - **Token URL** -> Token URL
    - **JWKS URL** -> Certificate URL
4. Click **Save**.
5. Click **Test** to verify the login provider.
