website/integrations/services/sentry/index.md, before:

---
title: Integrate with Sentry
sidebar_label: Sentry
---

# Integrate with Sentry

<span class="badge badge--primary">Support level: authentik</span>

## What is Sentry

> Sentry provides self-hosted and cloud-based error monitoring that helps all software teams discover, triage, and prioritize errors in real-time.
> One million developers at over fifty thousand companies already ship better software faster with Sentry. Won’t you join them?
>
> -- https://sentry.io

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `sentry.company` is the FQDN of the Sentry installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

Create an application in authentik. Create a SAML Provider with the following values

- ACS URL: `https://sentry.company/saml/acs/<sentry organisation name>/`
- Issuer: `authentik`
- Service Provider Binding: `Post`
- Audience: `https://sentry.company/saml/metadata/<sentry organisation name>/`

Under _Advanced protocol settings_, set the following:

- Signing Certificate: Select any certificate.
- Property Mapping: Select all Managed Mappings

## Sentry

**This guide assumes you've installed Sentry using [getsentry/self-hosted](https://github.com/getsentry/self-hosted)**

Navigate to Settings -> Auth, and click on Configure next to SAML2

![](./auth.png)

In authentik, get the Metadata URL by right-clicking `Download Metadata` and selecting Copy Link Address, and paste that URL into Sentry.

On the next screen, input these Values

- IdP User ID: `http://schemas.goauthentik.io/2021/02/saml/uid`
- User Email: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/emailaddress`
- First Name: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/name`

After confirming, Sentry will authenticate with authentik, and you should be redirected back to a page confirming your settings.

Commit message:

website/integrations-all: add default values change warning (#12777)
* website/integrations-all: add default values change warning

* website/integrations-all: update message

* Update website/integrations/services/gitea/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/gitea/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/pgadmin/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/hashicorp-cloud/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/hashicorp-vault/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/oracle-cloud/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/hashicorp-vault/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/pgadmin/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/proxmox-ve/index.md

Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>

* Update website/integrations/services/zammad/index.md

Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>

* Update website/integrations/services/writefreely/index.md

Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>

---------

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>
Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>
Co-authored-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

website/integrations/services/sentry/index.md, after:

---
title: Integrate with Sentry
sidebar_label: Sentry
---

# Integrate with Sentry

<span class="badge badge--primary">Support level: authentik</span>

## What is Sentry

> Sentry provides self-hosted and cloud-based error monitoring that helps all software teams discover, triage, and prioritize errors in real-time.
> One million developers at over fifty thousand companies already ship better software faster with Sentry. Won’t you join them?
>
> -- https://sentry.io

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `sentry.company` is the FQDN of the Sentry installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that you need to change from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

Create an application in authentik. Create a SAML Provider with the following values

- ACS URL: `https://sentry.company/saml/acs/<sentry organisation name>/`
- Issuer: `authentik`
- Service Provider Binding: `Post`
- Audience: `https://sentry.company/saml/metadata/<sentry organisation name>/`

Under _Advanced protocol settings_, set the following:

- Signing Certificate: Select any certificate.
- Property Mapping: Select all Managed Mappings

## Sentry

**This guide assumes you've installed Sentry using [getsentry/self-hosted](https://github.com/getsentry/self-hosted)**

Navigate to Settings -> Auth, and click on Configure next to SAML2

![](./auth.png)

In authentik, get the Metadata URL by right-clicking `Download Metadata` and selecting Copy Link Address, and paste that URL into Sentry.

On the next screen, input these Values

- IdP User ID: `http://schemas.goauthentik.io/2021/02/saml/uid`
- User Email: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/emailaddress`
- First Name: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/name`

After confirming, Sentry will authenticate with authentik, and you should be redirected back to a page confirming your settings.
