website/integrations/services/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Integrate with Applications
sidebar_label: Applications
---

# Applications

import DocCardList from "@theme/DocCardList";
import SupportBadge from "@site/src/components/SupportBadge";

Below is a list of all applications that are known to work with authentik.

:::info{title="Support Levels"}
All app integrations will have one of these badges:

|                                     |                                                            |
| ----------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| <SupportBadge level="community" />  | The integration is community maintained.                   |
| <SupportBadge level="vendor" />     | The integration is supported by the vendor.                |
| <SupportBadge level="authentik" />  | The integration is regularly tested by the authentik team. |
| <SupportBadge level="deprecated" /> | The integration is deprecated and may be removed.          |

:::

### Add a new application

To add documentation for a new application (with support level Community or Vendor), please use the integration template [`service.md`](https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/blob/main/website/integrations/template/service.md) file from our GitHub repo. You can download the template file using the following command:

```shell
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/goauthentik/authentik/main/website/integrations/template/service.md
```

Don't forget to edit the `sidebarsIntegrations.js` file to add your new integration to the lefthand navigation bar.

## Integration categories

<DocCardList />

Commit message:

website/docs: Flesh out integrations copy changes. (#13619)
* website/docs: Flesh out integrations copy changes.

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>
Signed-off-by: Teffen Ellis <592134+GirlBossRush@users.noreply.github.com>

* Lint.

* Revert removed section. Fix links.

* reorder integrations page sections

Signed-off-by: Fletcher Heisler <fheisler@users.noreply.github.com>

* add back page title

Signed-off-by: Fletcher Heisler <fheisler@users.noreply.github.com>

* move cards to very end of topic

* fix broken anchor link

---------

Signed-off-by: Teffen Ellis <592134+GirlBossRush@users.noreply.github.com>
Signed-off-by: Fletcher Heisler <fheisler@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>
Co-authored-by: Fletcher Heisler <fheisler@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Tana M Berry <tana@goauthentik.com>

website/integrations/services/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Integrate with Applications
sidebar_label: Applications
---

import DocCardList from "@theme/DocCardList";
import SupportBadge from "@site/src/components/SupportBadge";

# Applications

Most third-party services that support authentication protocols such as SAML, OAuth, and OpenID Connect can be integrated with authentik, allowing users to log in to these services using their authentik credentials.

If you don't see an application you're looking for, let us know. You can reach us on [GitHub](https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik), [Discord](https://goauthentik.io/discord), or via email to [hello@goauthentik.io](mailto:hello@goauthentik.io). You can also add your own documentation for a new application integration following [these instructions](#add-a-new-application).

All documented app integrations will have one of these badges:

- <SupportBadge level="community" />: Community maintained.
- <SupportBadge level="vendor" />: Supported by the vendor.
- <SupportBadge level="authentik" />: Regularly tested by the authentik team.
- <SupportBadge level="deprecated" />: Deprecated and may be removed.

### Add a new application

<a id="add-new"></a>

To add documentation for a new application (with support level Community or Vendor), please use the integration template [`service.md`](https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/blob/main/website/integrations/template/service.md) file from our GitHub repo. You can download the template file using the following command:

```shell
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/goauthentik/authentik/main/website/integrations/template/service.md
```

Don't forget to edit the `sidebarsIntegrations.js` file to add your new integration to the lefthand navigation bar.

## Integration categories

<DocCardList />
