website/integrations/services/pgadmin/index.md, before:

---
title: Integrate with pgAdmin
sidebar_label: pgAdmin
---

# pgAdmin

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is pgAdmin

> pgAdmin is a management tool for PostgreSQL and derivative relational databases such as EnterpriseDB's EDB Advanced Server. It may be run either as a web or desktop application.
>
> -- https://www.pgadmin.org/

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `pgadmin.company` is the FQDN of pgAdmin.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of authentik.

# authentik configuration

1. From the Admin interface, navigate to **Applications** -> **Applications**.
2. Use the wizard to create a new application and provider. During this process:
    - Note the **Client ID**, **Client Secret**, and **slug** values because they will be required later.
    - Set the redirect URI to `https://pgadmin.company`.
    - Select any available signing key.

## pgAdmin OAuth Configuration

To configure OAuth in pgAdmin, you can either use the `config_local.py` file or set environment variables if you are deploying pgAdmin in a containerized setup.

### Using `config_local.py`

1. Locate or create the `config_local.py` file in the `/pgadmin4/` directory.

    - If the file does not exist, create it manually.

2. Add the following configuration settings to `config_local.py`:

    ```python
    AUTHENTICATION_SOURCES = ['oauth2', 'internal']
    OAUTH2_AUTO_CREATE_USER = True
    OAUTH2_CONFIG = [{
        'OAUTH2_NAME': 'authentik',
        'OAUTH2_DISPLAY_NAME': 'Login with authentik',
        'OAUTH2_CLIENT_ID': '<Client ID from authentik>',
        'OAUTH2_CLIENT_SECRET': '<Client secret from authentik>',
        'OAUTH2_TOKEN_URL': 'https://authentik.company/application/o/token/',
        'OAUTH2_AUTHORIZATION_URL': 'https://authentik.company/application/o/authorize/',
        'OAUTH2_API_BASE_URL': 'https://authentik.company/',
        'OAUTH2_USERINFO_ENDPOINT': 'https://authentik.company/application/o/userinfo/',
        'OAUTH2_SERVER_METADATA_URL': 'https://authentik.company/application/o/<App Slug>/.well-known/openid-configuration',
        'OAUTH2_SCOPE': 'openid email profile',
        'OAUTH2_ICON': '<Fontawesome icon key (e.g., fa-key)>',
        'OAUTH2_BUTTON_COLOR': '<Hexadecimal color code for the login button>'
    }]
    ```

3. Save the file and restart pgAdmin for the changes to take effect.

    :::note
    You must restart pgAdmin every time you make changes to `config_local.py`.
    :::

### Using Environment Variables for Containerized Deployments

For deployments using Docker or Kubernetes, you can configure OAuth using the following environment variables:

1. Set these environment variables in your container:

```bash
PGADMIN_CONFIG_AUTHENTICATION_SOURCES="['oauth2', 'internal']"
PGADMIN_CONFIG_OAUTH2_AUTO_CREATE_USER=True
PGADMIN_CONFIG_OAUTH2_CONFIG="[{'OAUTH2_NAME':'authentik','OAUTH2_DISPLAY_NAME':'Login with authentik','OAUTH2_CLIENT_ID':'<Client ID from authentik>','OAUTH2_CLIENT_SECRET':'<Client secret from authentik>','OAUTH2_TOKEN_URL':'https://authentik.company/application/o/token/','OAUTH2_AUTHORIZATION_URL':'https://authentik.company/application/o/authorize/','OAUTH2_API_BASE_URL':'https://authentik.company/','OAUTH2_USERINFO_ENDPOINT':'https://authentik.company/application/o/userinfo/','OAUTH2_SERVER_METADATA_URL':'https://authentik.company/application/o/<App Slug>/.well-known/openid-configuration','OAUTH2_SCOPE':'openid email profile','OAUTH2_ICON':'<Fontawesome icon key (e.g., fa-key)>','OAUTH2_BUTTON_COLOR':'<Hexadecimal color code for the login button>'}]"
```

### General Notes

- To **only allow OAuth2 login**, set:

    ```python
    AUTHENTICATION_SOURCES = ['oauth2']
    ```

    Ensure that you promote at least one user to an admin before disabling the internal authentication.

- To **disable automatic user creation**, set:
    ```python
    OAUTH2_AUTO_CREATE_USER = False
    ```
    Setting this value to `False` disables automatic user creation. This ensures that only the first signed-in user is registered.

Commit message:

website/integrations: pgadmin: updates note
Adds back "based on" note with updated versions

website/integrations/services/pgadmin/index.md, after:

---
title: Integrate with pgAdmin
sidebar_label: pgAdmin
---

# pgAdmin

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is pgAdmin

> pgAdmin is a management tool for PostgreSQL and derivative relational databases such as EnterpriseDB's EDB Advanced Server. It may be run either as a web or desktop application.
>
> -- https://www.pgadmin.org/

:::note
This is based on authentik 2024.12.2 and pgAdmin4 8.14
:::

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `pgadmin.company` is the FQDN of pgAdmin.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of authentik.

# authentik configuration

1. From the Admin interface, navigate to **Applications** -> **Applications**.
2. Use the wizard to create a new application and provider. During this process:
    - Note the **Client ID**, **Client Secret**, and **slug** values because they will be required later.
    - Set the redirect URI to `https://pgadmin.company`.
    - Select any available signing key.

## pgAdmin OAuth Configuration

To configure OAuth in pgAdmin, you can either use the `config_local.py` file or set environment variables if you are deploying pgAdmin in a containerized setup.

### Using `config_local.py`

1. Locate or create the `config_local.py` file in the `/pgadmin4/` directory.

    - If the file does not exist, create it manually.

2. Add the following configuration settings to `config_local.py`:

    ```python
    AUTHENTICATION_SOURCES = ['oauth2', 'internal']
    OAUTH2_AUTO_CREATE_USER = True
    OAUTH2_CONFIG = [{
        'OAUTH2_NAME': 'authentik',
        'OAUTH2_DISPLAY_NAME': 'Login with authentik',
        'OAUTH2_CLIENT_ID': '<Client ID from authentik>',
        'OAUTH2_CLIENT_SECRET': '<Client secret from authentik>',
        'OAUTH2_TOKEN_URL': 'https://authentik.company/application/o/token/',
        'OAUTH2_AUTHORIZATION_URL': 'https://authentik.company/application/o/authorize/',
        'OAUTH2_API_BASE_URL': 'https://authentik.company/',
        'OAUTH2_USERINFO_ENDPOINT': 'https://authentik.company/application/o/userinfo/',
        'OAUTH2_SERVER_METADATA_URL': 'https://authentik.company/application/o/<App Slug>/.well-known/openid-configuration',
        'OAUTH2_SCOPE': 'openid email profile',
        'OAUTH2_ICON': '<Fontawesome icon key (e.g., fa-key)>',
        'OAUTH2_BUTTON_COLOR': '<Hexadecimal color code for the login button>'
    }]
    ```

3. Save the file and restart pgAdmin for the changes to take effect.

    :::note
    You must restart pgAdmin every time you make changes to `config_local.py`.
    :::

### Using Environment Variables for Containerized Deployments

For deployments using Docker or Kubernetes, you can configure OAuth using the following environment variables:

1. Set these environment variables in your container:

```bash
PGADMIN_CONFIG_AUTHENTICATION_SOURCES="['oauth2', 'internal']"
PGADMIN_CONFIG_OAUTH2_AUTO_CREATE_USER=True
PGADMIN_CONFIG_OAUTH2_CONFIG="[{'OAUTH2_NAME':'authentik','OAUTH2_DISPLAY_NAME':'Login with authentik','OAUTH2_CLIENT_ID':'<Client ID from authentik>','OAUTH2_CLIENT_SECRET':'<Client secret from authentik>','OAUTH2_TOKEN_URL':'https://authentik.company/application/o/token/','OAUTH2_AUTHORIZATION_URL':'https://authentik.company/application/o/authorize/','OAUTH2_API_BASE_URL':'https://authentik.company/','OAUTH2_USERINFO_ENDPOINT':'https://authentik.company/application/o/userinfo/','OAUTH2_SERVER_METADATA_URL':'https://authentik.company/application/o/<App Slug>/.well-known/openid-configuration','OAUTH2_SCOPE':'openid email profile','OAUTH2_ICON':'<Fontawesome icon key (e.g., fa-key)>','OAUTH2_BUTTON_COLOR':'<Hexadecimal color code for the login button>'}]"
```

### General Notes

- To **only allow OAuth2 login**, set:

    ```python
    AUTHENTICATION_SOURCES = ['oauth2']
    ```

    Ensure that you promote at least one user to an admin before disabling the internal authentication.

- To **disable automatic user creation**, set:
    ```python
    OAUTH2_AUTO_CREATE_USER = False
    ```
    Setting this value to `False` disables automatic user creation. This ensures that only the first signed-in user is registered.
