website/integrations/services/firezone/index.md, before:

---
title: Integrate with Firezone
sidebar_label: Firezone
---

# Firezone

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Firezone

> Firezone is an open-source remote access platform built on WireGuard®, a modern VPN protocol that's 4-6x faster than OpenVPN.
>
> -- https://www.firezone.dev

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `firezone.company` is the FQDN of the Firezone installation.
- `authentik` is the unique ID used to generate logins for this provider.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

Create an OAuth2/OpenID provider with the following parameters:

- Client type: `Confidential`
- Redirect URIs/Origins: `Redirect URI from Firezone Config`
- Signing Key: `<Select your certificate>`
- Click: `Finish`

Note the Client ID and Client Secret value. Create an application using the provider you've created above.

## Firezone Config

- Click _Security_ under Settings
- Under _Single Sign-On_, click on _Add OpenID Connect Provider_
- Config ID: `authentik`
- Label: `Text to display on the Login button`
- Scope: `(leave default of "openid email profile")`
- Response type: `(leave default of 'code')
- Client ID: `Taken from Authentik Provider Config`
- Client Secret: `Taken from Authentik Provider Config`
- Discovery Document URI: `OpenID Configuration URL from Authentik`
- Redirect URI: `https://firezone.company/auth/oidc/<ConfigID>/callback/`
  :::note
  You should be able to leave the default Rediret URL
  :::
- Auto-create Users: Enabled in order to automatically provision users when signing in the first time.
- Click _Save_,

Although local authentication is quick and easy to get started with, you can limit attack surface by disabling local authentication altogether. For production deployments it's usually a good idea to disable local authentication and enforce MFA through authentik.

:::info
In case something goes wrong with the configuration, you can temporarily re-enable local authentication via the REST API or by following instructions from https://www.firezone.dev/docs/administer/troubleshoot/#re-enable-local-authentication-via-cli.
:::

## Additional Resources

- https://www.firezone.dev/docs/authenticate/oidc/
- https://www.firezone.dev/docs/administer/troubleshoot/#re-enable-local-authentication-via-cli

Commit message:

website/integrations-all: add default values change warning

website/integrations/services/firezone/index.md, after:

---
title: Integrate with Firezone
sidebar_label: Firezone
---

# Firezone

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Firezone

> Firezone is an open-source remote access platform built on WireGuard®, a modern VPN protocol that's 4-6x faster than OpenVPN.
>
> -- https://www.firezone.dev

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `firezone.company` is the FQDN of the Firezone installation.
- `authentik` is the unique ID used to generate logins for this provider.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that have been changed from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

Create an OAuth2/OpenID provider with the following parameters:

- Client type: `Confidential`
- Redirect URIs/Origins: `Redirect URI from Firezone Config`
- Signing Key: `<Select your certificate>`
- Click: `Finish`

Note the Client ID and Client Secret value. Create an application using the provider you've created above.

## Firezone Config

- Click _Security_ under Settings
- Under _Single Sign-On_, click on _Add OpenID Connect Provider_
- Config ID: `authentik`
- Label: `Text to display on the Login button`
- Scope: `(leave default of "openid email profile")`
- Response type: `(leave default of 'code')
- Client ID: `Taken from Authentik Provider Config`
- Client Secret: `Taken from Authentik Provider Config`
- Discovery Document URI: `OpenID Configuration URL from Authentik`
- Redirect URI: `https://firezone.company/auth/oidc/<ConfigID>/callback/`
  :::note
  You should be able to leave the default Rediret URL
  :::
- Auto-create Users: Enabled in order to automatically provision users when signing in the first time.
- Click _Save_,

Although local authentication is quick and easy to get started with, you can limit attack surface by disabling local authentication altogether. For production deployments it's usually a good idea to disable local authentication and enforce MFA through authentik.

:::info
In case something goes wrong with the configuration, you can temporarily re-enable local authentication via the REST API or by following instructions from https://www.firezone.dev/docs/administer/troubleshoot/#re-enable-local-authentication-via-cli.
:::

## Additional Resources

- https://www.firezone.dev/docs/authenticate/oidc/
- https://www.firezone.dev/docs/administer/troubleshoot/#re-enable-local-authentication-via-cli
