website/integrations/services/paperless-ngx/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Integrate with Paperless-ngx
sidebar_label: Paperless-ngx
---

# Integrate with Paperless-ngx

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Paperless-ngx

> Paperless-ngx is an application that indexes your scanned documents and allows you to easily search for documents and store metadata alongside your documents. It was a fork from paperless-ngx, in turn a fork from the original Paperless, neither of which are maintained any longer.
>
> -- https://github.com/paperless-ngx/paperless-ngx

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `paperless.company` is the FQDN of the Paperless-ngx installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

## authentik Configuration

### Step 1 - OAuth2/OpenID Provider

Create a OAuth2/OpenID Provider (under Applications/Providers) with these settings:

    Name : Paperless
    Redirect URI: https://paperless.company/accounts/oidc/authentik/login/callback/

### Step 2 - Application

Create an application (under Resources/Applications) with these settings:

    Name: Paperless
    Slug: paperless
    Provider: Paperless

## Paperless Configuration

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

<Tabs
  defaultValue="docker"
  values={[
    {label: 'Docker', value: 'docker'},
    {label: 'Standalone', value: 'standalone'},
  ]}>
  <TabItem value="docker">
If you have Paperless-ngx setup in Docker, add the following environment variables to your Paperless-ngx compose file:

```yaml
environment:
    PAPERLESS_APPS: allauth.socialaccount.providers.openid_connect
    PAPERLESS_SOCIALACCOUNT_PROVIDERS: >
        {
          "openid_connect": {
            "APPS": [
              {
                "provider_id": "authentik",
                "name": "Authentik",
                "client_id": "<Client ID>",
                "secret": "<Client Secret>",
                "settings": {
                  "server_url": "https://authentik.company/application/o/paperless/.well-known/openid-configuration"
                }
              }
            ],
            "OAUTH_PKCE_ENABLED": "True"
          }
        }
```

Now restart your container:
`docker compose down && docker compose up -d`

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="standalone">

You need to update your `paperless.conf` configuration file. Paperless will search for this configuration file in the following locations and use the first one it finds:

- The environment variable `PAPERLESS_CONFIGURATION_PATH`
- `/path/to/paperless/paperless.conf`
- `/etc/paperless.conf`
- `/usr/local/etc/paperless.conf`

Edit your `paperless.conf` and add the following:

```ini
PAPERLESS_ENABLE_ALLAUTH=true
PAPERLESS_APPS=allauth.socialaccount.providers.openid_connect
PAPERLESS_SOCIALACCOUNT_PROVIDERS={"openid_connect":{"OAUTH_PKCE_ENABLED":true,"APPS":[{"provider_id":"authentik","name":"authentik","client_id":"<Client ID>","secret":"<Client Secret>","settings":{"server_url":"https://authentik.company/application/o/paperless/.well-known/openid-configuration"}}]}}
```

Now restart your Paperless services using `sudo systemctl restart paperless-*`

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
## Finished

Now you can access Paperless-ngx by logging in with authentik.

To add authentik authentication to an existing user, log in to Paperless with local authentication, click the profile icon in the top-right, click My Profile, then Connect new social account.

Commit message:

website/integrations-all: add default values change warning (#12777)
* website/integrations-all: add default values change warning

* website/integrations-all: update message

* Update website/integrations/services/gitea/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/gitea/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/pgadmin/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/hashicorp-cloud/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/hashicorp-vault/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/oracle-cloud/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/hashicorp-vault/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/pgadmin/index.md

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

* Update website/integrations/services/proxmox-ve/index.md

Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>

* Update website/integrations/services/zammad/index.md

Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>

* Update website/integrations/services/writefreely/index.md

Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>

---------

Signed-off-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>
Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>
Co-authored-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>

website/integrations/services/paperless-ngx/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Integrate with Paperless-ngx
sidebar_label: Paperless-ngx
---

# Integrate with Paperless-ngx

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Paperless-ngx

> Paperless-ngx is an application that indexes your scanned documents and allows you to easily search for documents and store metadata alongside your documents. It was a fork from paperless-ngx, in turn a fork from the original Paperless, neither of which are maintained any longer.
>
> -- https://github.com/paperless-ngx/paperless-ngx

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `paperless.company` is the FQDN of the Paperless-ngx installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that you need to change from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

## authentik Configuration

### Step 1 - OAuth2/OpenID Provider

Create a OAuth2/OpenID Provider (under Applications/Providers) with these settings:

    Name : Paperless
    Redirect URI: https://paperless.company/accounts/oidc/authentik/login/callback/

### Step 2 - Application

Create an application (under Resources/Applications) with these settings:

    Name: Paperless
    Slug: paperless
    Provider: Paperless

## Paperless Configuration

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

<Tabs
  defaultValue="docker"
  values={[
    {label: 'Docker', value: 'docker'},
    {label: 'Standalone', value: 'standalone'},
  ]}>
  <TabItem value="docker">
If you have Paperless-ngx setup in Docker, add the following environment variables to your Paperless-ngx compose file:

```yaml
environment:
    PAPERLESS_APPS: allauth.socialaccount.providers.openid_connect
    PAPERLESS_SOCIALACCOUNT_PROVIDERS: >
        {
          "openid_connect": {
            "APPS": [
              {
                "provider_id": "authentik",
                "name": "Authentik",
                "client_id": "<Client ID>",
                "secret": "<Client Secret>",
                "settings": {
                  "server_url": "https://authentik.company/application/o/paperless/.well-known/openid-configuration"
                }
              }
            ],
            "OAUTH_PKCE_ENABLED": "True"
          }
        }
```

Now restart your container:
`docker compose down && docker compose up -d`

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="standalone">

You need to update your `paperless.conf` configuration file. Paperless will search for this configuration file in the following locations and use the first one it finds:

- The environment variable `PAPERLESS_CONFIGURATION_PATH`
- `/path/to/paperless/paperless.conf`
- `/etc/paperless.conf`
- `/usr/local/etc/paperless.conf`

Edit your `paperless.conf` and add the following:

```ini
PAPERLESS_ENABLE_ALLAUTH=true
PAPERLESS_APPS=allauth.socialaccount.providers.openid_connect
PAPERLESS_SOCIALACCOUNT_PROVIDERS={"openid_connect":{"OAUTH_PKCE_ENABLED":true,"APPS":[{"provider_id":"authentik","name":"authentik","client_id":"<Client ID>","secret":"<Client Secret>","settings":{"server_url":"https://authentik.company/application/o/paperless/.well-known/openid-configuration"}}]}}
```

Now restart your Paperless services using `sudo systemctl restart paperless-*`

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
## Finished

Now you can access Paperless-ngx by logging in with authentik.

To add authentik authentication to an existing user, log in to Paperless with local authentication, click the profile icon in the top-right, click My Profile, then Connect new social account.
